"The Reconditely Weird Affair"

Use MAX_STATIC_DATA of 512000.

Limbo is a room.
Metaphysics is a region.
Limbo is in Metaphysics.
The player is in Limbo.
Metaphysics is a region.
Battlement is a room.
Scotland is a region.
Battlement is in Scotland.
Fore is a direction. The opposite of Fore is aft.
aft is a direction. The opposite of aft is Fore.
Starboard is a direction. The opposite of Starboard is port.
port is a direction. The opposite of port is Starboard.
Scotland is a region.
Lake is a room.
Lake is in Scotland.
Populated_Rome is a region.
Forum is a room.
Forum is in Populated_Rome.
Via Sacra is a room.
Via Sacra is in Populated_Rome.
Rome is a region.
Curia Steps is a room.
Curia Steps is in Rome.
Curia Interior is a room.
Curia Interior is in Rome.
Temple of Eris is a room.
Temple of Eris is in Rome.
Altar of Eris is a room.
Altar of Eris is in Rome.
Temple of Jupiter Virilis is a room.
Temple of Jupiter Virilis is in Rome.
Twisty Little Alley is a room.
Twisty Little Alley is in Rome.
Artist's Hut is a room.
Artist's Hut is in Rome.
Phallus Interior is a room.
Phallus Interior is in Rome.
Seedy Tavern is a room.
Seedy Tavern is in Rome.
Hometown is a region.
Domus Macana is a region.
Sewers is a region.
Town is a region.
Atrium is a room.
Atrium is in Domus Macana.
Peristyle is a room.
Peristyle is in Domus Macana.
Ostia is a room.
Ostia is in Town.
Dockside is a room.
Dockside is in Town.
Stiffy Love Nest is a room.
Stiffy Love Nest is in Domus Macana.
Tablinum is a room.
Tablinum is in Domus Macana.
Privy is a room.
Privy is in Domus Macana.
plain wooden door is a door.
heavy wooden door is a door.
flimsy door is a door.
Beneath the privy is a room.
Special_Sewers is a region.
Beneath the privy is in Special_Sewers.
Generic_Sewers is a region.
Special_Sewers is a region.
Sewer1 is a room.
Sewer1 is in Generic_Sewers.
Sewer2 is a room.
Sewer2 is in Generic_Sewers.
Sewer3 is a room.
Sewer3 is in Generic_Sewers.
Sewer4 is a room.
Sewer4 is in Generic_Sewers.
sewer5 is a room.
sewer5 is in Generic_Sewers.
Sewer6 is a room.
Sewer6 is in Generic_Sewers.
Sewer7 is a room.
Sewer7 is in Generic_Sewers.
Sewer8 is a room.
Sewer8 is in Generic_Sewers.
Sewer9 is a room.
Sewer9 is in Generic_Sewers.
Sewer10 is a room.
Sewer10 is in Generic_Sewers.
black iron grate is a door.
House_Of_Glub is a room.
House_Of_Glub is in Special_Sewers.
Sewer_Mouth is a room.
Sewer_Mouth is in Special_Sewers.
Shipboard is a region.
Poop Deck is a room.
Poop Deck is in Shipboard.
Sicily is a region.
Syracuse is a room.
Syracuse is in Sicily.
Polyphemus Brothel is a room.
Polyphemus Brothel is in Sicily.
Phoenicia is a region.
Generic_Carthage is a region.
Clinic is a room.
Clinic is in Phoenicia.
Fortune-teller's Tent is a room.
Fortune-teller's Tent is in Phoenicia.
Cemetery is a room.
Cemetery is in Phoenicia.
Carthage Docks is a room.
Carthage Docks is in Generic_Carthage.
Harbor Ruins is a room.
Harbor Ruins is in Generic_Carthage.
Agora is a room.
Agora is in Generic_Carthage.
Industrial Wasteland is a room.
Industrial Wasteland is in Generic_Carthage.
necropolis gate is a door.
Campania is a region.
Cumae is a room.
Cumae is in Campania.
Lake Avernus is a room.
Lake Avernus is in Campania.
Cocceio's Cave is a room.
Cocceio's Cave is in Campania.
Sybilline Grotto is a room.
Sybilline Grotto is in Campania.
Judaea is a region.
Jaffa is a room.
Jaffa is in Judaea.
Jonah's Museum is a room.
Jonah's Museum is in Judaea.
Fake Whale Interior is a room.
Fake Whale Interior is in Judaea.
Gift Shop is a room.
Gift Shop is in Judaea.
Jerusalem is a room.
Jerusalem is in Judaea.
Jerusalem_Alley is a room.
Jerusalem_Alley is in Judaea.
Temple Courtyard is a room.
Temple Courtyard is in Judaea.
Judaean Brothel is a room.
Judaean Brothel is in Judaea.
Zach's Mohelerie is a room.
Zach's Mohelerie is in Judaea.
fake_whale_mouth is a door.
Egypt is a region.
Egyptian_streets is a region.
Palace Grounds is a region.
Hotel Metropole is a room.
Hotel Metropole is in Egypt.
Eugenidean Boudoir is a room.
Eugenidean Boudoir is in Egypt.
Museum Antechamber is a room.
Museum Antechamber is in Egypt.
Great Library is a room.
Great Library is in Egypt.
Top of the Pharos is a room.
Top of the Pharos is in Egypt.
The Temple of Serapis is a room.
The Temple of Serapis is in Egypt.
Alexandrine Wharf is a room.
Alexandrine Wharf is in Egyptian_streets.
Great Harbor is a room.
Great Harbor is in Egyptian_streets.
Canopic Way is a room.
Canopic Way is in Egyptian_streets.
Western Canopic Way is a room.
Western Canopic Way is in Egyptian_streets.
Heptastadion is a room.
Heptastadion is in Egyptian_streets.
By The Museum is a room.
By The Museum is in Egyptian_streets.
Intersection is a room.
Intersection is in Egyptian_streets.
Isle of Pharos is a room.
Isle of Pharos is in Egyptian_streets.
Gate of the Sun is a room.
Gate of the Sun is in Egyptian_streets.
Lake Harbor is a room.
Lake Harbor is in Egyptian_streets.
Cleopatra's Palace is a room.
Cleopatra's Palace is in Palace Grounds.
Soma Mausoleum is a room.
Soma Mausoleum is in Palace Grounds.
Cleopatra's Throne Room is a room.
Cleopatra's Throne Room is in Palace Grounds.
Cleopatra's Boudoir is a room.
Cleopatra's Boudoir is in Palace Grounds.
bead curtain is a door.
Macedonia is a region.
Thessalonica Docks is a room.
Thessalonica Docks is in Macedonia.
Prionia is a room.
Prionia is in Macedonia.
Litochoro is a room.
Litochoro is in Macedonia.
Near The Tree Line is a room.
Olympic Slopes is a region.
Near The Tree Line is in Olympic Slopes.
Jungly Africa is a region.
Jungle Slope is a room.
Jungle Slope is in Jungly Africa.
Canyon's Edge is a room.
Canyon's Edge is in Jungly Africa.
Narrow Chasm is a room.
Narrow Chasm is in Jungly Africa.
East Side of Chasm is a room.
East Side of Chasm is in Jungly Africa.
West Side of Chasm is a room.
West Side of Chasm is in Jungly Africa.
Waterfall Overlook is a room.
Waterfall Overlook is in Jungly Africa.
Rocky Ford is a room.
Rocky Ford is in Jungly Africa.
Palm Grove is a room.
Palm Grove is in Jungly Africa.
Melon Patch is a room.
Melon Patch is in Jungly Africa.
Cane Field is a room.
Cane Field is in Jungly Africa.
North Shore of the Lake is a room.
North Shore of the Lake is in Jungly Africa.
African Lake is a region.
North End of the Lake is a room.
North End of the Lake is in African Lake.
Middle of the Lake is a room.
Middle of the Lake is in African Lake.
Up a Tree is a region.
Halfway up the Banana Tree is a room.
Halfway up the Banana Tree is in Up a Tree.
Top of the Banana Tree is a room.
Top of the Banana Tree is in Up a Tree.
Darkest Africa is a region.
High on a Hillside is a room.
High on a Hillside is in Darkest Africa.
Precarious Ledge is a room.
Precarious Ledge is in Darkest Africa.
Mountain Pass is a room.
Mountain Pass is in Darkest Africa.
Spit of Land is a room.
Spit of Land is in Darkest Africa.
Rocky Streambed is a room.
Rocky Streambed is in Darkest Africa.
Plateau is a room.
Plateau is in Darkest Africa.
Dark Africa is a region.
Hidden Valley is a room.
Hidden Valley is in Dark Africa.
Ridiculous Animalistic Vehicles is a region.
Real Whale Interior is a room.
Real Whale Interior is in Ridiculous Animalistic Vehicles.
Hippopotamus Interior is a room.
Hippopotamus Interior is in Ridiculous Animalistic Vehicles.
elephant ribcage is a door.
footbridge is a door.
Outside_Shipboard is a region.
Poop_Deck2 is a room.
Poop_Deck2 is in Outside_Shipboard.
Main_Deck is a room.
Main_Deck is in Outside_Shipboard.
Halfway Up the Mast is a room.
Halfway Up the Mast is in Outside_Shipboard.
Crow's Nest is a room.
Crow's Nest is in Outside_Shipboard.
Cabin Hallway is a room.
Cabin Hallway is in Shipboard.
Stiffy's Cabin is a room.
Stiffy's Cabin is in Shipboard.
Hold is a room.
Hold is in Shipboard.
cabin hatch is a door.
Captain's door is a door.
Palinurus's door is a door.
Stiffy's door is a door.
hold hatch is a door.
Slave Ship is a region.
Captain's Cabin is a room.
Captain's Cabin is in Slave Ship.
Galley is a room.
Galley is in Slave Ship.
Viking_region is a region.
Viking Longboat is a room.
Viking Longboat is in Viking_region.
Druidic Grove is a room.
Druidic Grove is in Scotland.
Game Room is a room.
Olympus is a region.
Game Room is in Olympus.
Olympus is a region.
Underworld is a region.
Unreal City is a room.
Unreal City is in Underworld.
Garden is a room.
Garden is in Underworld.
Plaza is a room.
Plaza is in Underworld.
Land of the Dead is a room.
Land of the Dead is in Underworld.
Little Thebes is a room.
Little Thebes is in Underworld.
Rats' Alley is a room.
Rats' Alley is in Underworld.
Slough of Despond is a room.
Slough of Despond is in Underworld.
Apartment is a room.
Apartment is in Underworld.
Bloody Wood is a room.
Bloody Wood is in Underworld.
Riverbank is a room.
Riverbank is in Underworld.
Northern_riverbank is a room.
Northern_riverbank is in Underworld.
Circular Ruins is a room.
Circular Ruins is in Underworld.
Olive Grove is a room.
Olive Grove is in Underworld.
Muddy Field is a room.
Muddy Field is in Underworld.
Persephone's Palace is a room.
Persephone's Palace is in Underworld.
Kentucky is a region.
End_Of_Road is a room.
End_Of_Road is in Kentucky.
Open_Forest is a room. The printed name of Open_Forest is "Open Forestation".
Open_Forest is in Kentucky.
Other_Forest is a room.
Other_Forest is in Kentucky.
In_Valley is a room.
In_Valley is in Kentucky.
Slit_In_Streambed is a room.
Slit_In_Streambed is in Kentucky.
Inside_Building is a room.
Inside_Building is in Kentucky.
Outside_Grate is a room.
Outside_Grate is in Kentucky.
Road_Hill is a room.
Road_Hill is in Kentucky.
kentucky_grate is a door.
The other side of kentucky_grate is Limbo.
Mantua is a region.
Mantua_outdoors is a region.
Villa Entrance is a room.
Villa Entrance is in Mantua_outdoors.
Little Pond is a room.
Little Pond is in Mantua_outdoors.
Chestnut Grove is a room.
Chestnut Grove is in Mantua_outdoors.
Field Near Cave is a room.
Field Near Cave is in Mantua_outdoors.
Mantua_cave is a region.
Inside_the_Cavern is a room.
Inside_the_Cavern is in Mantua_cave.
Cavern_Mouth is a room.
Cavern_Mouth is in Mantua_cave.
Mantua_indoors is a region.
Villa Atrium is a room.
Villa Atrium is in Mantua_indoors.
Villa Peristyle is a room.
Villa Peristyle is in Mantua_indoors.
Kitchen is a room.
Kitchen is in Mantua_indoors.
Mantua_cellars is a region.
Pantry is a room.
Pantry is in Mantua_cellars.
Root Cellar is a room.
Root Cellar is in Mantua_cellars.
Shadowy Nook is a room.
Shadowy Nook is in Mantua_cellars.
Wine Cellar is a room.
Wine Cellar is in Mantua_cellars.
Dim Alcove is a room.
Dim Alcove is in Mantua_cellars.
Villa Doorway is a door.
stout door is a door.
Olympic Slopes is a region.
Olympic Ridge is a room.
Olympic Ridge is in Olympic Slopes.
Saddle is a room.
Saddle is in Olympic Slopes.
Southern Peak is a room.
Southern Peak is in Olympic Slopes.
Skolio is a room.
Skolio is in Olympic Slopes.
Cirque is a room.
Cirque is in Olympic Slopes.
Perilous Ledge is a room.
Perilous Ledge is in Olympic Slopes.
Skala is a room.
Skala is in Olympic Slopes.
Summit is a room.
Summit is in Olympus.
Olympic Plaza is a room.
Olympic Plaza is in Olympus.
Palace Steps is a room.
Palace Steps is in Olympus.
Olympic Garden is a room.
Olympic Garden is in Olympus.
Colossal Baths is a room.
Colossal Baths is in Olympus.
Grand Palace is a room.
Grand Palace is in Olympus.
Halls of Justice is a room.
Halls of Justice is in Olympus.
Eternity is a region.
Macedonian Hillside is a room.
Macedonian Hillside is in Macedonia.
Ruined Villa is a room.
Ruined Villa is in Eternity.
Pumpkin Patch is a room.
Pumpkin Patch is in Eternity.
Atomic Wasteland is a room.
Atomic Wasteland is in Eternity.
Ant-Man Kingdom is a room.
Ant-Man Kingdom is in Eternity.
Deep Space is a room.
Deep Space is in Eternity.
Black Hole is a room.
Black Hole is in Eternity.
Lake is down of Battlement.
up of Lake is nowhere.
Curia Steps is north of Forum.
Temple of Eris is south of Forum.
Via Sacra is east of Forum.
Temple of Jupiter Virilis is west of Forum.
Temple of Jupiter Virilis is inside of Forum.
Twisty Little Alley is north of Via Sacra.
Forum is west of Via Sacra.
Curia Interior is north of Curia Steps.
Forum is south of Curia Steps.
Curia Interior is inside of Curia Steps.
Curia Steps is south of Curia Interior.
Curia Steps is outside of Curia Interior.
Forum is north of Temple of Eris.
Altar of Eris is south of Temple of Eris.
Forum is outside of Temple of Eris.
Temple of Eris is north of Altar of Eris.
Forum is east of Temple of Jupiter Virilis.
Phallus Interior is west of Temple of Jupiter Virilis.
Phallus Interior is inside of Temple of Jupiter Virilis.
Forum is outside of Temple of Jupiter Virilis.
Seedy Tavern is north of Twisty Little Alley.
Via Sacra is south of Twisty Little Alley.
Artist's Hut is east of Twisty Little Alley.
Seedy Tavern is inside of Twisty Little Alley.
Twisty Little Alley is west of Artist's Hut.
Twisty Little Alley is outside of Artist's Hut.
Temple of Jupiter Virilis is east of Phallus Interior.
Temple of Jupiter Virilis is outside of Phallus Interior.
Twisty Little Alley is south of Seedy Tavern.
Twisty Little Alley is outside of Seedy Tavern.
Tablinum is north of Atrium.
Ostia is south of Atrium.
heavy wooden door is east of Atrium.
plain wooden door is west of Atrium.
Ostia is outside of Atrium.
flimsy door is north of Peristyle.
Tablinum is south of Peristyle.
Privy is inside of Peristyle.
Atrium is north of Ostia.
Dockside is west of Ostia.
Atrium is inside of Ostia.
Ostia is east of Dockside.
Sewer_Mouth is down of Dockside.
Sewer_Mouth is inside of Dockside.
plain wooden door is east of Stiffy Love Nest.
Peristyle is north of Tablinum.
Atrium is south of Tablinum.
flimsy door is south of Privy.
Beneath the privy is down of Privy.
Peristyle is outside of Privy.
Sewer1 is east of Beneath the privy.
Privy is up of Beneath the privy.
Sewer2 is north of Sewer1.
Beneath the privy is west of Sewer1.
Sewer1 is south of Sewer2.
Sewer4 is east of Sewer2.
Sewer3 is west of Sewer2.
Sewer2 is east of Sewer3.
Sewer6 is west of Sewer3.
sewer5 is south of Sewer4.
Sewer2 is west of Sewer4.
Sewer4 is north of sewer5.
Sewer7 is south of sewer5.
Sewer3 is east of Sewer6.
sewer5 is north of Sewer7.
Sewer8 is west of Sewer7.
Sewer7 is east of Sewer8.
Sewer9 is west of Sewer8.
Sewer8 is east of Sewer9.
Sewer10 is west of Sewer9.
black iron grate is north of Sewer10.
Sewer9 is east of Sewer10.
Sewer_Mouth is west of Sewer10.
black iron grate is south of House_Of_Glub.
Sewer10 is east of Sewer_Mouth.
Dockside is up of Sewer_Mouth.
Dockside is outside of Sewer_Mouth.
Polyphemus Brothel is north of Syracuse.
Polyphemus Brothel is inside of Syracuse.
Syracuse is south of Polyphemus Brothel.
Syracuse is outside of Polyphemus Brothel.
Industrial Wasteland is north of Clinic.
Industrial Wasteland is outside of Clinic.
Agora is west of Fortune-teller's Tent.
Agora is outside of Fortune-teller's Tent.
necropolis gate is south of Cemetery.
Harbor Ruins is north of Carthage Docks.
Industrial Wasteland is west of Carthage Docks.
Agora is north of Harbor Ruins.
Carthage Docks is south of Harbor Ruins.
necropolis gate is north of Agora.
Harbor Ruins is south of Agora.
Fortune-teller's Tent is east of Agora.
Fortune-teller's Tent is inside of Agora.
Clinic is south of Industrial Wasteland.
Carthage Docks is east of Industrial Wasteland.
Clinic is inside of Industrial Wasteland.
Cocceio's Cave is east of Cumae.
Sybilline Grotto is south of Lake Avernus.
Cocceio's Cave is west of Lake Avernus.
Sybilline Grotto is inside of Lake Avernus.
Lake Avernus is east of Cocceio's Cave.
Cumae is west of Cocceio's Cave.
Lake Avernus is north of Sybilline Grotto.
Lake Avernus is outside of Sybilline Grotto.
Jonah's Museum is south of Jaffa.
Jerusalem is east of Jaffa.
Jaffa is north of Jonah's Museum.
Gift Shop is south of Jonah's Museum.
fake_whale_mouth is west of Jonah's Museum.
Fake Whale Interior is inside of Jonah's Museum.
fake_whale_mouth is east of Fake Whale Interior.
Jonah's Museum is outside of Fake Whale Interior.
Jonah's Museum is north of Gift Shop.
Jerusalem_Alley is north of Jerusalem.
Zach's Mohelerie is south of Jerusalem.
Temple Courtyard is east of Jerusalem.
Jaffa is west of Jerusalem.
Jerusalem is south of Jerusalem_Alley.
Jerusalem is west of Temple Courtyard.
Jerusalem is north of Zach's Mohelerie.
Eugenidean Boudoir is south of Hotel Metropole.
Lake Harbor is west of Hotel Metropole.
Eugenidean Boudoir is up of Hotel Metropole.
Lake Harbor is outside of Hotel Metropole.
Hotel Metropole is north of Eugenidean Boudoir.
Hotel Metropole is down of Eugenidean Boudoir.
Great Library is east of Museum Antechamber.
By The Museum is west of Museum Antechamber.
By The Museum is outside of Museum Antechamber.
Museum Antechamber is west of Great Library.
Isle of Pharos is west of Top of the Pharos.
Isle of Pharos is outside of Top of the Pharos.
Canopic Way is north of The Temple of Serapis.
Canopic Way is outside of The Temple of Serapis.
By The Museum is east of Alexandrine Wharf.
By The Museum is south of Great Harbor.
Cleopatra's Palace is east of Great Harbor.
Cleopatra's Palace is inside of Great Harbor.
The Temple of Serapis is south of Canopic Way.
Intersection is east of Canopic Way.
Western Canopic Way is west of Canopic Way.
The Temple of Serapis is inside of Canopic Way.
Heptastadion is north of Western Canopic Way.
Canopic Way is east of Western Canopic Way.
Isle of Pharos is north of Heptastadion.
Western Canopic Way is south of Heptastadion.
Great Harbor is north of By The Museum.
Intersection is south of By The Museum.
Museum Antechamber is east of By The Museum.
Alexandrine Wharf is west of By The Museum.
Museum Antechamber is inside of By The Museum.
By The Museum is north of Intersection.
Lake Harbor is south of Intersection.
Gate of the Sun is east of Intersection.
Canopic Way is west of Intersection.
Heptastadion is south of Isle of Pharos.
Top of the Pharos is east of Isle of Pharos.
Top of the Pharos is inside of Isle of Pharos.
Intersection is west of Gate of the Sun.
Intersection is north of Lake Harbor.
Hotel Metropole is east of Lake Harbor.
Hotel Metropole is inside of Lake Harbor.
Cleopatra's Throne Room is north of Cleopatra's Palace.
Soma Mausoleum is east of Cleopatra's Palace.
Great Harbor is west of Cleopatra's Palace.
Soma Mausoleum is down of Cleopatra's Palace.
Soma Mausoleum is inside of Cleopatra's Palace.
Great Harbor is outside of Cleopatra's Palace.
Cleopatra's Palace is west of Soma Mausoleum.
Cleopatra's Palace is up of Soma Mausoleum.
Cleopatra's Palace is outside of Soma Mausoleum.
Cleopatra's Palace is south of Cleopatra's Throne Room.
bead curtain is east of Cleopatra's Throne Room.
bead curtain is west of Cleopatra's Boudoir.
Litochoro is west of Thessalonica Docks.
Litochoro is east of Prionia.
Near The Tree Line is west of Prionia.
Thessalonica Docks is east of Litochoro.
Prionia is west of Litochoro.
Cirque is north of Near The Tree Line.
Olympic Ridge is south of Near The Tree Line.
Prionia is east of Near The Tree Line.
High on a Hillside is east of Jungle Slope.
Canyon's Edge is west of Jungle Slope.
Narrow Chasm is north of Canyon's Edge.
East Side of Chasm is south of Canyon's Edge.
Jungle Slope is east of Canyon's Edge.
Canyon's Edge is south of Narrow Chasm.
Precarious Ledge is west of Narrow Chasm.
Canyon's Edge is north of East Side of Chasm.
Waterfall Overlook is south of East Side of Chasm.
footbridge is west of East Side of Chasm.
footbridge is east of West Side of Chasm.
Mountain Pass is west of West Side of Chasm.
East Side of Chasm is north of Waterfall Overlook.
Rocky Ford is south of Waterfall Overlook.
Waterfall Overlook is north of Rocky Ford.
Melon Patch is north of Palm Grove.
Cane Field is south of Palm Grove.
Mountain Pass is east of Palm Grove.
Spit of Land is west of Palm Grove.
Palm Grove is south of Melon Patch.
Palm Grove is north of Cane Field.
North End of the Lake is south of North Shore of the Lake.
Rocky Streambed is east of North Shore of the Lake.
North Shore of the Lake is north of North End of the Lake.
Middle of the Lake is south of North End of the Lake.
North End of the Lake is north of Middle of the Lake.
Spit of Land is south of Middle of the Lake.
Top of the Banana Tree is east of Halfway up the Banana Tree.
Plateau is west of Halfway up the Banana Tree.
Halfway up the Banana Tree is west of Top of the Banana Tree.
elephant ribcage is east of High on a Hillside.
Jungle Slope is west of High on a Hillside.
Narrow Chasm is east of Precarious Ledge.
West Side of Chasm is east of Mountain Pass.
Palm Grove is west of Mountain Pass.
Middle of the Lake is north of Spit of Land.
Palm Grove is east of Spit of Land.
Plateau is north of Rocky Streambed.
North Shore of the Lake is west of Rocky Streambed.
Rocky Streambed is south of Plateau.
Halfway up the Banana Tree is east of Plateau.
elephant ribcage is west of Hidden Valley.
cabin hatch is down of Poop_Deck2.
Main_Deck is fore of Poop_Deck2.
Halfway Up the Mast is up of Main_Deck.
hold hatch is down of Main_Deck.
Poop_Deck2 is aft of Main_Deck.
Crow's Nest is up of Halfway Up the Mast.
Main_Deck is down of Halfway Up the Mast.
Halfway Up the Mast is down of Crow's Nest.
cabin hatch is up of Cabin Hallway.
Captain's door is aft of Cabin Hallway.
Stiffy's door is starboard of Cabin Hallway.
Palinurus's door is port of Cabin Hallway.
Stiffy's door is port of Stiffy's Cabin.
hold hatch is up of Hold.
Olympic Plaza is west of Game Room.
Plaza is north of Unreal City.
Land of the Dead is south of Unreal City.
Persephone's Palace is east of Unreal City.
Garden is west of Unreal City.
Persephone's Palace is inside of Unreal City.
Unreal City is east of Garden.
Slough of Despond is north of Plaza.
Unreal City is south of Plaza.
Rats' Alley is east of Plaza.
Little Thebes is west of Plaza.
Slough of Despond is outside of Plaza.
Unreal City is north of Land of the Dead.
Plaza is east of Little Thebes.
Apartment is north of Rats' Alley.
Plaza is west of Rats' Alley.
Apartment is inside of Rats' Alley.
Riverbank is north of Slough of Despond.
Plaza is south of Slough of Despond.
Bloody Wood is west of Slough of Despond.
Plaza is inside of Slough of Despond.
Rats' Alley is south of Apartment.
Rats' Alley is outside of Apartment.
Slough of Despond is east of Bloody Wood.
Slough of Despond is south of Riverbank.
Circular Ruins is north of Northern_riverbank.
Muddy Field is west of Northern_riverbank.
Olive Grove is north of Circular Ruins.
Northern_riverbank is south of Circular Ruins.
Circular Ruins is south of Olive Grove.
Northern_riverbank is east of Muddy Field.
Unreal City is west of Persephone's Palace.
Unreal City is outside of Persephone's Palace.
In_Valley is south of End_Of_Road.
Inside_Building is east of End_Of_Road.
Road_Hill is west of End_Of_Road.
Road_Hill is up of End_Of_Road.
Inside_Building is inside of End_Of_Road.
Open_Forest is north of Open_Forest.
Open_Forest is south of Open_Forest.
Open_Forest is east of Open_Forest.
Open_Forest is west of Open_Forest.
In_Valley is down of Open_Forest.
End_Of_Road is north of Other_Forest.
Open_Forest is south of Other_Forest.
In_Valley is east of Other_Forest.
End_Of_Road is north of In_Valley.
Slit_In_Streambed is south of In_Valley.
Open_Forest is east of In_Valley.
Other_Forest is west of In_Valley.
Open_Forest is up of In_Valley.
In_Valley is north of Slit_In_Streambed.
Outside_Grate is south of Slit_In_Streambed.
Open_Forest is east of Slit_In_Streambed.
Open_Forest is west of Slit_In_Streambed.
End_Of_Road is west of Inside_Building.
End_Of_Road is outside of Inside_Building.
Slit_In_Streambed is north of Outside_Grate.
Open_Forest is south of Outside_Grate.
Open_Forest is east of Outside_Grate.
Open_Forest is west of Outside_Grate.
kentucky_grate is down of Outside_Grate.
End_Of_Road is north of Road_Hill.
Open_Forest is south of Road_Hill.
End_Of_Road is east of Road_Hill.
End_Of_Road is down of Road_Hill.
Field Near Cave is south of Villa Entrance.
Villa Doorway is east of Villa Entrance.
Villa Entrance is north of Little Pond.
Field Near Cave is west of Little Pond.
Field Near Cave is north of Chestnut Grove.
Villa Entrance is north of Field Near Cave.
Chestnut Grove is south of Field Near Cave.
Little Pond is east of Field Near Cave.
Cavern_Mouth is west of Field Near Cave.
Cavern_Mouth is east of Inside_the_Cavern.
Field Near Cave is east of Cavern_Mouth.
Inside_the_Cavern is west of Cavern_Mouth.
Villa Peristyle is east of Villa Atrium.
Villa Doorway is west of Villa Atrium.
Kitchen is south of Villa Peristyle.
Villa Atrium is west of Villa Peristyle.
Villa Peristyle is north of Kitchen.
Pantry is east of Kitchen.
Root Cellar is north of Pantry.
Shadowy Nook is south of Pantry.
stout door is east of Pantry.
Kitchen is west of Pantry.
Pantry is south of Root Cellar.
Pantry is north of Shadowy Nook.
Dim Alcove is east of Wine Cellar.
stout door is west of Wine Cellar.
Wine Cellar is west of Dim Alcove.
Near The Tree Line is north of Olympic Ridge.
Saddle is south of Olympic Ridge.
Skala is west of Olympic Ridge.
Olympic Ridge is north of Saddle.
Southern Peak is south of Saddle.
Perilous Ledge is west of Saddle.
Saddle is north of Southern Peak.
Skolio is west of Southern Peak.
Skala is north of Skolio.
Southern Peak is east of Skolio.
Perilous Ledge is north of Cirque.
Near The Tree Line is south of Cirque.
Cirque is south of Perilous Ledge.
Saddle is east of Perilous Ledge.
Summit is west of Perilous Ledge.
Summit is north of Skala.
Skolio is south of Skala.
Olympic Ridge is east of Skala.
Olympic Plaza is north of Summit.
Skala is south of Summit.
Perilous Ledge is east of Summit.
Palace Steps is north of Olympic Plaza.
Summit is south of Olympic Plaza.
Game Room is east of Olympic Plaza.
Colossal Baths is west of Olympic Plaza.
Grand Palace is north of Palace Steps.
Olympic Plaza is south of Palace Steps.
Olympic Plaza is east of Colossal Baths.
Palace Steps is south of Grand Palace.

Index map with an EPS file and title set to "Mentula Macanus: Apocolocyntosis", room-size set to 80, grid-size set to 108, room-name-size set to 8, room-name-length set to 28, room-name-font of Rome set to "Georgia-Bold", room-colour of Rome set to "Thistle", room-name-size of Rome set to 6, rubric "Rome" size 36 font "Georgia" at 50&-100 from Phallus Interior, room-colour of Domus Macana set to "Pale Golden Rod", room-name-font of Domus Macana set to "Georgia", room-name-size of Domus Macana set to 10, room-colour of Generic_Sewers set to "Sienna", room-name-font of Generic_Sewers set to "Georgia", room-name-size of Generic_Sewers set to 10, room-name-length of Special_Sewers set to 28, room-colour of Special_Sewers set to "Sienna", room-name-font of Special_Sewers set to "Georgia", room-name-size of Special_Sewers set to 10, room-name-length of Special_Sewers set to 28, room-name of Sewer1 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer2 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer3 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer4 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer5 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer6 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer7 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer8 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer9 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer10 set to "Sewer", room-name of Sewer_Mouth set to "Sewer Mouth", room-name of House_of_Glub set to "House of Glub", room-shape of Sewer6 set to "circle", room-shape of House_of_Glub set to "circle", room-colour of Town set to "Blanched Almond", room-name-length of Town set to 28, room-name-font of Town set to "Georgia", room-name-size of Town set to 10, rubric "Ostia" size 36 font "Georgia" at 0&130 from Privy, rubric "Ostian" size 36 font "Georgia" at 0&150 from Sewer_Mouth, rubric "Sewers" size 36 font "Georgia" at 0&100 from Sewer_Mouth, room-colour of Shipboard set to "Sienna", room-name-size of Shipboard set to 10, room-name-font of Shipboard set to "Chalkboard", rubric "Shipboard" size 20 font "Chalkboard" at -100&0 from Poop Deck, rubric "Shipboard" size 20 font "Chalkboard" at 100&0 from Halfway up the Mast, room-name of Poop_Deck2 set to "Poop Deck", room-name of Main_Deck set to "Deck", room-name of Halfway Up The Mast set to "Mast", room-colour of Slave Ship set to "Papaya Whip", room-name-size of Slave Ship set to 10, room-name-font of Slave Ship set to "Chalkboard", rubric "Slave Ship" size 20 font "Chalkboard" at -50&-100 from Galley, room-colour of Viking Longboat set to "Powder Blue", room-name-size of Viking Longboat set to 10, room-name-font of Viking Longboat set to "Chalkboard", rubric "Viking Ship" size 20 font "Chalkboard" at 0&-100 from Viking Longboat, room-colour of Sicily set to "Light Pink", room-name-font of Sicily set to "ComicSansMS", rubric "Syracuse" size 24 font "ComicSansMS" at 0&100 from Polyphemus Brothel, room-colour of Phoenicia set to "Pale Green", room-name-font of Phoenicia set to "Papyrus", Rubric "Carthage" size 24 font "Papyrus" at 0&-100 from Carthage Docks, room-colour of Campania set to "Ghost White", room-name-font of Campania set to "BrushScriptMT", Room-name-size of Campania set to 14, rubric "Campania" size 20 font "BrushScriptMT" at 0&100 from Cocceio's Cave, room-colour of Judaea set to "Sky Blue", room-name-font of Judaea set to "Peace", room-name-size of Judaea set to 8, Rubric "Judaea" size 18 font "Peace" at 0&100 from Judaean Brothel, room-name of Jerusalem_Alley set to "Alley", room-name of Judaean Brothel set to "Brothel", room-name of Temple Courtyard set to "Courtyard", room-name of Zach's Mohelerie set to "Mohelerie", room-name of Jonah's Museum set to "Museum", room-name of Fake Whale Interior set to "Whale", room-colour of Egypt set to "Wheat", room-name-font of Egypt set to "Aegyptus", room-name-size of Egypt set to 8, Rubric "Egypt" size 20 font "Aegyptus" at 0&100 from Top of the Pharos, room-colour of Palace Grounds set to "Pale Violet Red", room-name of Cleopatra's Palace set to "Palace", room-name of Cleopatra's Boudoir set to "Boudoir", room-name of Cleopatra's Throne Room set to "Throne Room", room-name of Soma Mausoleum set to "Mausoleum", room-name of Eugenidean Boudoir set to "Room 14", room-name of Museum Antechamber set to "Antechamber", room-name-font of Macedonia set to "Georgia", room-colour of Macedonia set to "Navajo White", Rubric "Macedonia" size 16 font "Georgia" at 0&100 from Litochoro, Rubric "Olympic Slopes" size 14 font "Georgia" at 0&-100 from Macedonian Hillside, room-colour of Olympic Slopes set to "Ghost White", room-name-font of Dark Africa set to "Helvetica", room-colour of Dark Africa set to "Sea Green", room-name-font of Real Whale Interior set to "Chalkboard", room-name-size of Real Whale Interior set to 10, room-name of Real Whale Interior set to "Whale", room-colour of Real Whale Interior set to "Dark Salmon", room-name-font of Hippopotamus Interior set to "Chalkboard", room-name-size of Hippopotamus Interior set to 10, room-name of Hippopotamus Interior set to "Hippo", room-colour of Hippopotamus Interior set to "Lavender Blush", room-name of North Shore of the Lake set to "North Shore", room-name of Halfway Up the Banana Tree set to "Banana Tree", room-name of Top of the Banana Tree set to "Treetop", Rubric "Africa" size 28 font "Helvetica" at 0&100 from Mountain Pass, room-name-font of Scotland set to "Onyx", room-colour of Scotland set to "Light Grey", room-name-size of Scotland set to 18, room-shape of the Druidic Grove set to "circle", rubric "Scotland" size 36 font "Onyx" at -50&100 from Lake, room-name-font of Olympus set to "Didot", room-colour of Olympus set to "Lime", room-name-size of Olympus set to 10, room-shape of Grand Palace set to "circle", rubric "Olympus" size 24 font "Didot" at 0&100 from Halls of Justice, room-name-font of Underworld set to "LucidaBlackletter", room-colour of Underworld set to "Papaya Whip", room-name of the northern_riverbank set to "Riverbank", room-name of Persephone's Palace set to "Palace", room-shape of the Circular Ruins set to "circle", rubric "Underworld" size 36 font "LucidaBlackletter" at 0&-100 from Land of the Dead, room-name-font of Kentucky set to "PRNumber3", room-colour of Kentucky set to "Lawn Green", room-name of End_Of_Road set to "At End Of Road", room-name of Open_Forest set to "In Forest", room-name of Other_Forest set to "In Forest", room-name of In_Valley set to "In A Valley", room-name of Outside_Grate set to "Outside Grate", room-name of Road_Hill set to "At Hill In Road", room-name of Inside_Building set to "Inside Building", room-name of Slit_In_Streambed set to "Slit in Streambed", rubric "Kentucky" size 24 font "PRNumber3" at 0&100 from End_Of_Road, room-name-font of Metaphysics set to "Zapfino", room-colour of Metaphysics set to "Powder Blue", room-name-size of Metaphysics set to 10, Rubric "Limbo" size 16 font "Zapfino" at 0&-100 from Limbo, room-name-font of Mantua set to "Garamond", room-colour of Mantua_outdoors set to "Light Green", room-colour of Mantua_cave set to "Khaki", room-name of Inside_the_Cavern set to "Cavern", room-name of Cavern_Mouth set to "Cavern Mouth", room-colour of Mantua_indoors set to "Bisque", room-name of Villa Atrium set to "Atrium", rubric "Mantua" size 24 font "Garamond" at 0&-100 from Cavern_Mouth, room-name-font of Eternity set to "Zapfino", room-name-size of Eternity set to 6, room-colour of Eternity set to "Powder Blue", rubric "Eternity" size 20 font "Zapfino" at 0&100 from Pumpkin Patch.

Index map with fore mapped as north.

Index map with aft mapped as south.

Index map with port mapped as west.

Index map with starboard mapped as east.
