   Testing Room
  Welcome
  An Interactive Fiction
  Release 1 / Serial number 150512 / Inform 7 build 6M22 (I6/v6.33 lib 6/12N) SD
  
  Testing Room
  You can see an apple and an orange here.
  
> >   Testing Room
  (Testing.)
  
  >[1] x apple
  Instead of examining the apple in the Testing Room.
  
  Instead of examining a fruit in the Testing Room.
  
  Instead of examining something in the Testing Room.
  
  Instead of examining the apple in Nearby.
  
  Instead of examining a fruit in Nearby.
  
  Instead of examining something in Nearby.
  
  Instead of examining the apple in the presence of the orange.
  
  Instead of examining a fruit in the presence of the orange.
  
  Instead of examining something in the presence of the orange.
  
  Instead of examining the apple when the orange is in the testing room.
  
  Instead of examining the apple during Looking At Things.
  
  Instead of examining a fruit when the orange is in the testing room.
  
  Instead of examining a fruit during Looking At Things.
  
  Instead of examining something when the orange is in the testing room.
  
  Instead of examining something during Looking At Things.
  
  Instead of examining the apple.
  
  Instead of examining a fruit.
  
  Instead of examining something.
  
  You see nothing special about the apple.
  
  >[2] eat apple
  Instead of eating the apple in the Testing Room.
  
  Instead of eating a fruit in the Testing Room.
  
  Instead of eating something in the Testing Room.
  
  Instead of eating the apple in Nearby.
  
  Instead of eating a fruit in Nearby.
  
  Instead of eating something in Nearby.
  
  Instead of eating the apple in the presence of the orange.
  
  Instead of eating a fruit in the presence of the orange.
  
  Instead of eating something in the presence of the orange.
  
  Instead of eating the apple when the orange is in the testing room.
  
  Instead of eating the apple during Looking At Things.
  
  Instead of eating a fruit when the orange is in the testing room.
  
  Instead of eating a fruit during Looking At Things.
  
  Instead of eating something when the orange is in the testing room.
  
  Instead of eating something during Looking At Things.
  
  Instead of eating the apple.
  
  Instead of eating a fruit.
  
  Instead of eating something.
  
  That's plainly inedible.
  
> >