Inform 7 v10.1.0 has started.
I've now read your source text, which is 105 words long.
I've also read Basic Inform by Graham Nelson, which is 7691 words long.
I've also read English Language by Graham Nelson, which is 2328 words long.
I've also read Standard Rules by Graham Nelson, which is 32092 words long.
Problem__ PM_APUnknown
  >--> You wrote 'Instead of going arfle barfle gloop while Burrow is dark' (source
    text, line 3), which seems to introduce a rule taking effect only if the
    action is 'going arfle barfle gloop while Burrow is dark'. The part after
    'when' (or 'while') was fine, but the earlier words did not make sense as a
    description of an action. I am unable to place this rule into any rulebook.
Problem__ PM_APWithBadWhen
  >--> You wrote 'Instead of going arfle barfle gloop when spoliation obviates'
    (source text, line 5), which seems to introduce a rule taking effect only
    'when spoliation obviates'. But this condition did not make sense, so I am
    unable to accept this rule.
Problem__ PM_APUnknown
  >--> You wrote 'Instead of putting it on' (source text, line 18), which seems
    to introduce a rule taking effect only if the action is 'putting it on'.
    But that did not make sense as a description of an action. (I notice that
    there's an action called 'Putting it on': the 'it' in the name is meant to
    be where something is specified about the first thing it acts on. Try using
    'something' rather than 'it'?) I am unable to place this rule into any
    rulebook.
Problem__ PM_APUnknown
  >--> You wrote 'Instead of putting it on when Burrow is a room' (source text, line 20),
    which seems to introduce a rule taking effect only if the action is
    'putting it on when Burrow is a room'. The part after 'when' (or 'while')
    was fine, but the earlier words did not make sense as a description of an
    action. (I notice that there's an action called 'Putting it on': the 'it'
    in the name is meant to be where something is specified about the first
    thing it acts on. Try using 'something' rather than 'it'?) I am unable to
    place this rule into any rulebook.
Inform 7 has finished.
