Example: * Alien Invasion Part 23
Location: Writing and reading tables to external files
RecipeLocation: Start-Up Features
Index: Preferences file loaded on replaying
Description: Keeping a preference file that could be loaded by any game in a series.
For: Glulx

Suppose that we have a series of games each of which allows the player to select a puzzle difficulty level. When the player plays a new game in the series, we want them to start out by default with the same difficulty level they faced earlier on, so we store this information in a small preferences file, as follows:

	{*}"Alien Invasion Part 23"
	
	A difficulty is a kind of value. The difficulties are easy, moderate, hard, and fiendish.
	
	Understand "use [difficulty] puzzles" as selecting difficulty. Selecting difficulty is an action out of world, applying to one difficulty.
	
	Carry out selecting difficulty:
		choose row 1 in the Table of Preference Settings;
		now challenge level entry is difficulty understood;
		say "Puzzles will be [challenge level entry] from now on."
	
	The File of Preferences is called "prefs".
	
	When play begins:
		if File of Preferences exists:
			read File of Preferences into the Table of Preference Settings;
		choose row 1 in the Table of Preference Settings;
		say "(The current puzzle difficulty is set to [challenge level entry].)"
	
	Check quitting the game:
		write File of Preferences from the Table of Preference Settings.
	
	Table of Preference Settings
	challenge level
	easy
	
	The Sewer Junction is a room.

Our preference file is restricted to a single option here for simplicity's sake, but we could keep track of more information – whether the player preferred verbose or brief room descriptions, screen configurations, and so on.

If we were disposed to be somewhat crueler, we could use a similar method to make the player finish each episode of the series in order to unlock the next. All we would need to do is store a numerical password in our preferences file when the player finished a given level; the next level would check, say, the Table of Completed Levels for that password, and refuse to play unless the right number were present.

