Example: ** Carnivale
Location: Reaching inside and reaching outside rules
RecipeLocation: Continuous Spaces and The Outdoors
Index: Scope for large objects visible far away
Description: An alternative to backdrops when we want something to be visible from a distance but only touchable from one room.
For: Z-Machine

Suppose we want to make an object that (unlike a backdrop) is definitely located in one room, but can be seen from far off. We want to allow the player to interact with it from a distance, but only using those actions that require visibility. Other actions should be denied:

	{*}"Carnivale"
	
	The Fairground is a region. Park Entrance, By the Wheel, and Candy Stand are in Fairground. Candy Stand is north of By the Wheel. Park Entrance is west of Candy Stand and northwest of By the Wheel.
	
	The ferris wheel is scenery in By the Wheel. "It is extravagantly tall and carries several dozen glass gondolas for riders."
	
	The description of By the Wheel is "You stand at the foot of an enormous ferris wheel, which turns far too quickly and never seems to stop for new riders."
	
	The description of Park Entrance is "You are now just inside the gates. Behind you snakes a triple line of fairgoers all the way down the length of the valley to the railway station. Roughly southeast of here is the ferris wheel, towering over the other attractions."
	
	The description of Candy Stand is "A hut in pale pink and baby blue dispenses marshmallow death's-heads, sugar-beetles, and other such treats. The giant ferris wheel is just off to the south from here."

As the descriptions make clear, the ferris wheel should be visible from everywhere in the fair, so we'll borrow a line from the [Activities] chapter to make that happen:

	{**}After deciding the scope of the player:
		if the location is in Fairground, place the ferris wheel in scope.

"Scope" determines what the player can interact with; by writing this rule, we make Inform understand all commands that refer to the ferris wheel when the player is anywhere in the fairground, instead of responding with

	You can't see any such thing.

as it normally would.

Now, by default, if the player were to type ``touch ferris wheel`` while in another room, the story would respond

	You can't reach into By the Wheel.

This may not be quite what we want, but we can replace this text with our own reaching inside rule:

	{**}Rule for reaching inside a room:
		say "You can only look from this distance.";
		deny access.

And because our accessibility rules are considered before the "Instead" phase, we can write the following rule confident that it will apply only when the player is in fact in range to touch the ferris wheel:

	{**}Instead of touching the ferris wheel:
		say "You don't dare: it's spinning too fast."
	
	Test me with "x ferris wheel / touch ferris wheel / se / x ferris wheel / touch ferris wheel".

