Example: *** For Demonstration Purposes
Location: Relations involving values
RecipeLocation: Obedient Characters
Index: Character who learns new actions by watching the player
Description: A character who learns new actions by watching the player performing them.
For: Z-Machine

Suppose we want to have a character who can dynamically learn new actions by observing the player performing them. We could do this by adding the actions to a list of things the character can do, but using a relation to express the same idea allows for tidier, easier-to-read code.

Thanks to Tara McGrew for the initial design of this example.

	{*}"For Demonstration Purposes"
	
	Section 1 - Procedure
	
	Capability relates various people to various stored actions. The verb to be capable of means the capability relation.
	
	Persuasion rule:
		let CA be the current action with no specific actor;
		if the person asked is capable of CA:
			persuasion succeeds;
		otherwise:
			say "[The person asked] look[s] confused. Maybe a demonstration would help.";
			persuasion fails.
	
	The action requester is an object that varies. The action requester variable is defined by Inter as "act_requester".
	
	To decide which action is the current action with no specific actor:
		let old actor be the person asked;
		let old requester be the action requester;
		now the person asked is the player;
		now the action requester is nothing;
		let CA be the current action;
		now the person asked is the old actor;
		now the action requester is the old requester;
		decide on CA.
	
	The learning by observation rule is listed after the report stage rule in the specific action-processing rules.
	
	Definition: a person is other if they are not the player.
	
	This is the learning by observation rule:
		repeat with the viewer running through other people who can see the player:
			if the player is the actor and viewer is not capable of the current action:
				say "[The viewer] watches your behavior with interest. Seems like [they] [are] learning.";
				now the viewer is capable of the current action.
	
	Section 2 - Scenario
	
	The Daily Planet is a room. Clark is here. He is a man.
	
	When play begins:
		now Clark is capable of taking inventory.
	
	Test me with "Clark, inventory / Clark, x me / x me / Clark, x me".

