Example: ** German Chocolate
Location: When the director is active
RecipeLocation: Goal-Seeking Characters
Index: Goal-seeking dialogue
Description: Allowing a character to doggedly pursue a particular subject of conversation.

Sometimes instead of free-flowing dialogue we may want a character who is able to persistently go after a particular question. Here, we allow goal-seeking so that even if the player changes the topic, the character will keep looking for segues to the important point.

	{*}"German Chocolate"
	
	Chapter 1 - Setting
	 
	Parlour is a room. Louisa is a person in Parlour.
	
	Before reading a command while the turn count is 1:
		make the dialogue director active.
		
	Test me with "z / talk about lunch / talk about money / z / z".
	
	Chapter 2 - Content
	
	Section 1 - Concepts
	
	Suggestion relates various concepts to each other. The verb to suggest means the suggestion relation.
	
	Food is a concept. Food suggests breakfast, lunch, dinner, dessert, and beverages.
	
	Dessert suggests chocolate cake.
	
	The target concept is a concept that varies. The target concept is chocolate cake.
	
	Money is a concept. Money suggests economics. Economics suggests the cocoa industry. The cocoa industry suggests chocolate.
	
	Section 2 - Traversal
	
	Every turn:
		let current concept be entry 1 in the live conversational subject list;
		let proximate concept be the next step via the suggestion relation from current concept to the target concept;
		clear conversational subjects;
		try Louisa talking about the proximate concept;
		if the proximate concept is the target concept:
			end the story finally saying "She got to the point in the end."
	
	
	Section 3 - Actual content (dialogue) 
	
	(This is the starting beat. About food.)
	
	Louisa: "I am so hungry."
	
	
	(About food. Fully recurring.)
	
	Louisa: "[one of]Gosh, I could really go for something to eat![or]...okay, I know I'm getting annoying on this subject but I am still so hungry.[or]I get so feisty when my blood sugar drops.[or]Is there really nothing to eat around here?[stopping]"
	
	
	(About lunch.)
	
	Player: "I missed lunch, but it's no big deal."
	
	Louisa: "You're so brave."
	
	
	(About dessert.)
	
	Louisa: "I could really go for something sweet."
	
	
	(About dessert. Fully recurring.)
	
	Louisa (without speaking): "Louisa comes back around to the subject of desserts."
	
	
	(About chocolate cake.)
	
	Louisa: "Are you eating the leftover chocolate cake? Because if you're not, I mean, if you don't want it... it's only that I'm starving."
	
	
	(About money.)
	
	Player: "I'm broke this month. I've got to keep my expenses down until next month's paycheck comes in."
	
	
	(About economics.)
	
	Louisa: "Things are difficult all over, I think. It's a shame, really. Though... it could be worse. Some countries are in much worse economic condition than we are."
	
	
	(About cocoa industry.)
	
	Louisa: "I saw a documentary about the cocoa industry just recently. It really makes you think, you know, about where we get our chocolate from."
	
	
	(About the cocoa industry and economics. Fully recurring.)
	
	Louisa (without speaking): "Louisa revisits the topic of fair trade chocolate."
	 