



Introductory Lavori Studies
An Interactive Fiction
Release 1 / Serial number 160428 / Inform 7 v10.2.0 / D

Practice Chamber
A fire burns merrily in the grate. Otherwise, the practice chamber is largely empty, the better to prevent anything from affecting your education in magical skills.

Your instructor lurks here, watching your every move.

The instructor: "Welcome. Let's start out with a little light mayhem before we try doing anything more advanced. You'll find you've been issued a couple of standard items with fairly obvious physical properties. I'd like to see you damage both of them through ordinary means."

(1) Cooperate
(2) Complain that I'm here to learn magic
(3) Complain that in fact I already know how to link things

>Cooperate

You: "You're the boss."

The instructor: "Well, sort of."

>You are carrying:
  a sensitive document
  a pane of glass

The instructor: "Sometimes it's worth EXAMINING something you're carrying to see what's going on."

>It's rectangular and about the size of the document. It's also translucent white, making it roughly the color of the document.

The instructor: "Generally one does not go around carrying loose panes of glass, but for now let's pretend that you might."

>You shatter the pane of glass.

The instructor: "We make progress. May I draw your attention to the inherent possibilities of burning a thing?"

>You set fire to the sensitive document and are quickly rid of it.

The instructor: "Fantastic! We make progress."

The instructor fishes around for additional supplies. When she's done, you've got roughly the same inventory you had to start with.

The instructor: "Now we have a new skill to learn. Try LINKing together two items that are similar."

>You are carrying:
  a sensitive document
  a pane of glass

The instructor: "You may notice that there is a similarity between the two items you are carrying. Try checking out the document you're carrying."

>With all those pages, it's about as thick as the pane of glass.

The instructor: "It's highly classified material. For safety, we have refrained from implementing a READ verb in this scenario. If you try, you'll just get a standard description of what a thing looks like, no more than you'd get from EXAMINE."

>You build a mutually-effective link between the pane of glass and the sensitive document.

The instructor: "Now you've got them linked, you only need to damage one to damage both."

>The pane of glass shatters. The sensitive document shatters.

The instructor fishes around for additional supplies. When she's done, you've got roughly the same inventory you had to start with.

The instructor: "Now, there is another form of link that shares strengths between items, rather than weaknesses."

The instructor: "This is the reverse link. REVERSE LINK thing TO thing will make both of them impervious to fire or breakage or so on."

>(first unlinking the sensitive document)

You build a mutually-effective, and protective, link between the pane of glass and the sensitive document. Both are now resistant to fire and casual smashing.

The instructor: "Good. Now let's see the effect of that in action - try destroying one of them and see what happens."

>The sensitive document resists flame, thanks to its link with the pane of glass.

The instructor: "Last step! You now have two things that are linked together. If you no longer want that to be true, you can UNLINK them."

>Now the pane of glass is linked with nothing.

The instructor: "And it seems we are done here."

That seems to be everything!



    *** You have now proven yourself ***



Would you like to RESTART, RESTORE a saved game, QUIT or UNDO the last command?
> 