Example: ** IPA
Location: The time of day
RecipeLocation: Event Scheduling
Index: Shops open and close at specific hours
Description: Shops which each have opening and closing hours, so that it is impossible to go in at the wrong times, and the player is kicked out if they overstay their welcome.
For: Z-Machine

Suppose we wanted a game set in a living town, with locations opening and closing at different times of day, and business carrying on as usual. The point might be to force the player to plan an itinerary carefully to hit the right spots at the right times; or we might be writing a more contemplative piece, where part of the enjoyment came from just watching the characters wander around doing their daily business...

	{*}"IPA"
	
	When play begins: now the right hand status line is "[time of day]".
	
	The time of day is 9:50 AM.
	
	A shop is a kind of room. A shop has a time called the opening hour. The opening hour of the shop is usually 8 AM. A shop has a time called the closing hour. A shop usually has closing hour 6 PM.
	
	Check going to a shop (called the target):
		if the time of day is before the opening hour of the target,
			say "[The target] is locked up until [the opening hour of the target]." instead.
	
	Check going to a shop (called the target):
		if the time of day is after the closing hour of the target,
			say "[The target] has been closed since [the closing hour of the target]." instead.
	
	Every turn when the location is a shop:
		let deadline be the closing hour of the location;
		if the deadline is before the time of day:
			let target be a random adjacent room which is not a shop;
			say "You are gently but firmly ushered out, since [the location] is closing.";
			move the player to the target.
	
	The Strip-mall Parking Lot is a room. "Dead Christmas trees are heaped outside the bagel shop. Strips of dirty ice survive along the curb, and in the shadows of the lamp-posts. A wet, almost illegible sheet of algebra homework is plastered to the asphalt.
	
	Pinewood Brewing Supply is at the east end of the lot."
	
	Pinewood Brewing Supply is a shop. It is east of Parking Lot. The opening hour of Pinewood Brewing Supply is 10:00 AM. The closing hour of Pinewood Brewing Supply is 3:30 PM. "Shelves and shelves of malt and hops; large glass carboys, and plastic tubing; empty bottles; bottle-caps; bottle-labeling kits; starters for vinegar, sourdough, root beer.
	
	A sweet malty smell hangs in the air."
	
	Instead of going to Brewing Supply when the time of day is before the opening hour of Brewing Supply for the second time:
		say "You rattle at the door again. 'Hold your horses, for crying out loud,' yells a voice from within."
	
	Noah's Bagels is a shop. It is north of the Parking Lot. The opening hour of Noah's Bagels is 6:00 AM. The closing hour of Noah's Bagels is 11:00 AM. "The selection has been somewhat picked over, leaving you with your choice of Pumpernickel, Asiago, or Everything."
	
	Test me with "e / e / n / z / s / e / z / e / z / z / e".

