Example: *** Noisemaking
Location: Check, carry out, report
RecipeLocation: Reactive Characters
Index: Observation stage after report
Description: Creating a stage after the report stage of an action, during which other characters may observe and react.
For: Z-Machine

Suppose the current sequence of action handling is not quite enough for us: we'd also like to have a stage after reporting, where other characters can react to the player character's behaviour after it has already happened and been reported on screen. Having such a stage is unlike using "after", because after occurs before reports and prevents them from being printed. So, for instance, we could allow the player to do any of a range of different actions that make loud noises, and have a nervous bird that reacts to all of them by flying away afterward.

To do this, we can add a new rule into the specific action-processing rules. (For a list of these, see the Rules index.) Moving rules around and adding new ones requires syntax that we will learn in the chapter on [Rulebooks], but the present example is fairly straightforward:

	{*}"Noisemaking"
	
	Section 1 - Procedure
	
	The other-player response rule is listed after the report stage rule in the specific action-processing rules.
	
	This is the other-player response rule:
		follow the observation rules.
	
	The observation rules is a rulebook.
	
	Section 2 - Scenario
	
	Country Lane is a room. West of Country Lane is Outside the Farmhouse. East of Country Lane is Village Center. North of Country Lane is Open Field.
	
	The player carries a drum.
	
	The black crow is an animal in Country Lane.
	
	Singing is an action applying to nothing. Understand "sing" as singing.
	
	Report singing:
		say "You hum a little ditty."
	
	Singing is a loud action.
	
	Attacking the drum is a loud action.
	
	The block attacking rule is not listed in any rulebook.
	
	Report attacking something:
		say "THWACK!"
	
	An observation rule for loud action in the presence of the black crow:
		let N be a random adjacent room;
		if N is a room, move the black crow to N;
		say "The crow, startled, flies off to [N]."
	
	Test me with "sing / g / n / hit drum".

