Example: * Timeless
Location: The internal rulebooks which keep stories running
RecipeLocation: The Passage Of Time
Index: Instant EXAMINE and LOOK
Description: A set of actions which do not take any game time at all.
For: Z-Machine

In a game with tight timing, it is sometimes friendliest to the player to let them ``LOOK`` and ``EXAMINE`` as much as necessary without being penalised.

	{*}"Timeless"
	
	Examining something is acting fast. Looking is acting fast.

Now we need a rule which, just at the right moment, stops the turn sequence rulebook in the cast of our new fast-acting actions:

	{**}The take visual actions out of world rule is listed before the early scene changing stage rule in the turn sequence rules.
	
	This is the take visual actions out of world rule:
		if acting fast, rule succeeds.

It seems odd to talk about any rule in the turn sequence rulebook succeeding or failing, because under normal circumstances each rule ends with no decision, so that the rulebook is never halted midway through. We've broken that convention here, because under some circumstances the `take visual actions out of world rule` can now succeed. If it does, the turn sequence is halted. (It would have been just as effective to write `rule fails`, because that also halts the rulebook. It makes no difference to us whether it halts happily or unhappily, just as long as it halts.) If the player is not `acting fast`, then the rule finishes without either succeeding or failing, and so the rulebook continues as normal.

The practical effect is that the rest of the turn sequence rulebook is omitted for looking or examining: in effect, they become out-of-world actions like "saving the game". If we wanted to add, say, taking inventory to the list of instant activities, we would just need to define it as acting fast, too.

Now the scenario for testing:

	{**}When play begins:
		say "You are cornered by a pack of zombie wolves, armed only with a torch and a pair of pinking shears. This may be your last moment on earth, unless you can think fast!"
	
	Cleft is a room. "You're backed into a cleft in the granite: behind you are only steep, high faces of stone, and before you a narrow passage."
	
	The plural of zombie wolf is zombie wolves. A zombie wolf is a kind of animal. Four zombie wolves are in Cleft.
	
	Rule for writing a paragraph about zombie wolves:
		say "The good news is that there isn't much space in which for the zombie wolves to attack.";
		now every zombie wolf is mentioned.
	
	A steep high face of stone is scenery in Cleft. Understand "rock" as the stone. The description is "Now that you look more closely, there appear to be pitons driven into the rock."
	
	Some pitons are part of the stone. The description of the pitons is "It looks as though someone else has made this ascent before."
	
	Instead of climbing the stone, try going up. Instead of climbing the pitons, try going up.
	
	Above the Cleft is Clifftop.
	
	Every turn when the location is Cleft:
		say "Alas, your time has run out. The alpha wolf springs--";
		end the story.
	
	Every turn when the location is Clifftop:
		say "After a breathless climb, you emerge at last onto the open clifftop.";
		end the story finally.
	
	Test me with "x me / x stone / x pitons / climb pitons".

