Example: * Transmutations
Location: Relations in groups
RecipeLocation: Magic (Breaking the Laws of Physics)
Index: Machine that transmutes objects
Description: A machine that turns objects into other, similar objects.
For: Z-Machine

Suppose we want to have a machine in our game that can transmute one item into another, similar object with different properties: a bag of jelly beans into a bag of jewels, for instance. Thus each item will be associated with some number of equivalents – the other objects it can turn into. This is a handy use for group relations:

	{*}"Transmutations"
	
	Workshop is a room.
	
	Transmutation relates things to each other in groups. The verb to become means the transmutation relation.
	
	Definition: a thing is transmutable if it becomes more than one thing. [* It always becomes itself.]
	
	A thing can be valuable. Something valuable called a bag of jewels is carried by the player. It becomes the bag of gunpowder and the bag of jelly beans.
	
	A thing can be dangerous. The bag of gunpowder is a dangerous thing.
	
	The bag of jelly beans is an edible thing.
	
	The machine is fixed in place in the workshop.
	
	The can't insert into what's not a container rule does nothing when inserting something into the machine.
	
	Check inserting something which is not transmutable into the machine:
		instead say "You can't transmute that."
	
	To decide which thing is new form of (obj - edible thing): decide on a random valuable thing which becomes obj.
	
	To decide which thing is new form of (obj - dangerous thing): decide on a random edible thing which becomes obj.
	
	To decide which thing is new form of (obj - valuable thing): decide on a random dangerous thing which becomes obj.
	
	Carry out inserting something into the machine:
		now the noun is nowhere;
		now the player carries the new form of the noun;
		rule succeeds.
	
	Report inserting something edible into the machine:
		say "The machine clicks, whirrs, and spits out [a new form of the noun]. You're rich!";
		rule succeeds.
	
	Report inserting something dangerous into the machine:
		say "The machine clicks, whirrs, and in a shower of flavor crystals, spits out [a new form of the noun].";
		rule succeeds.
	
	Report inserting something valuable into the machine:
		say "The machine clicks, whirrs, and with a violent roar, spits out [a new form of the noun].";
		rule succeeds.
	
	Test me with "i / put jewels in machine / i / put gunpowder in machine / i / put beans in machine".

In this example we have only defined a single set of transmutable objects, but we could easily expand to include other groups.

(Thanks to Tara McGrew for proposing this example.)

