Radiation Laboratory is a room.

A Geiger counter is here. A bench is a supporter in the Laboratory.
Hans is a man in the Laboratory.

East of the Laboratory is the Castle.

Eating something is gluttony.

[Should parse]

Test pattern (internal) with looking.
Test pattern (internal) with looking or waiting.
Test pattern (internal) with looking or taking.
Test pattern (internal) with taking the counter.
Test pattern (internal) with putting the counter on the bench.
Test pattern (internal) with putting the counter on something.
Test pattern (internal) with putting a thing on something.
Test pattern (internal) with putting a thing on a supporter.

Test pattern (internal) with Hans taking the counter.
Test pattern (internal) with Hans trying taking the counter.
Test pattern (internal) with asking Hans to try taking the counter.
Test pattern (internal) with somebody taking the counter.
Test pattern (internal) with an actor taking the counter.

Test pattern (internal) with examining the counter is nosy behaviour.
Test pattern (internal) with looking is nosy behaviour.
Test pattern (internal) with nosy behaviour.
Test pattern (internal) with looking in the presence of Hans.

[Should fail]

Test pattern (internal) with arfle barfle gloop.
Test pattern (internal) with looking the counter.

[Specificity]

Test pattern (internal) with taking ~~ doing something.
Test pattern (internal) with doing something ~~ doing something other than taking.
Test pattern (internal) with taking ~~ taking a thing.
Test pattern (internal) with taking the counter ~~ taking a thing.
Test pattern (internal) with taking or dropping the counter ~~ taking the counter.

Test pattern (internal) with list looking.
Test pattern (internal) with list looking in the Laboratory.
Test pattern (internal) with list looking in the Laboratory in the presence of Hans.
Test pattern (internal) with list dropping in the Laboratory in the presence of Hans.
Test pattern (internal) with list looking or taking inventory in the Laboratory in the presence of Hans.
Test pattern (internal) with list looking or taking inventory in the presence of Hans in the Laboratory.
Test pattern (internal) with list looking in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in.
Test pattern (internal) with list going from the Laboratory to the Castle.
Test pattern (internal) with list listening.
Test pattern (internal) with list listening in the presence of Hans.

Test pattern (internal) with list gluttony.
Test pattern (internal) with list gluttony in the Laboratory.

Test pattern (internal) with experimental looking.
Test pattern (internal) with experimental taking inventory.
Test pattern (internal) with experimental looking in the Laboratory.
Test pattern (internal) with experimental gluttony in the Laboratory.
