Laboratory is a room. Peter and Jane are in the laboratory. The box is a
container. A coin is a kind of thing. Two coins are in the box. A marble is
in the box. Missee is an animal in the laboratory.

Colour is a kind of value. The colours are black, white, red, green and
blue. A thing has a colour. The fashionable hue is a colour that varies.

Definition: a thing is tidy if it is in a container.

Definition: a colour is bright if it is red.

Amity relates various people to various people. The verb to like (he likes,
they like, it is liked, he is liking) implies the amity relation.

Owning relates various people to various animals. The verb to own (he owns,
they own, it is owned, he is owning) implies the owning relation.

Luring relates various things to various people. The verb to lure (he
lures, they lure, it is lured, he is luring) implies the luring relation.

Annoying relates various colours to various people. The verb to annoy (he
annoys, they annoy, it is annoyed, he is annoying) implies the annoying
relation.

A person can be friendly or unfriendly.

Height is a kind of value. 6 feet 4 inches specifies a height. A person has
a height.

Definition: a person is tall if his height is 6 feet 4 inches or more.

Transylvania and the Balkans are regions. The doubtful item is an object that varies.

Table of Solid Stuff
stuff							density
"water"							1
"stone"							4
"Sarah Palin's frontal lobes"	11

Table of Salad Stuff
stuff			crispiness
"water"			7
"lettuce"		2

A statue is a kind of thing. Some statues are defined by the Table of Stolid Stuff.

Table of Stolid Stuff
statue
Duke of Wellington
Duke of Marlborough

A thing has a number called weight.

Mass is a kind of value. 100kg specifies a mass. A thing has a mass.
Definition: a thing is heavy if its mass is 50kg or more.

The funky todo is a stored action that varies.


Test headline (internal) with Basic relations.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter is Jane.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter carries the box.
Test sentence (internal) with the box is carried by Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes Jane.
Test sentence (internal) with Jane is liked by Peter.


Test headline (internal) with Negated basic relations.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not Jane.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not carry the box.
Test sentence (internal) with the box is not carried by Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not like Jane.
Test sentence (internal) with Jane is not liked by Peter.


Test headline (internal) with Adjectives from KOVs coinciding with properties.

Test sentence (internal) with blue is red.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is red.
Test sentence (internal) with the fashionable hue is red.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is annoyed by green.
Test sentence (internal) with green annoys Peter.


Test headline (internal) with Negated adjectives from KOVs coinciding with properties.

Test sentence (internal) with blue is not red.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not red.
Test sentence (internal) with the fashionable hue is not red.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not annoyed by green.
Test sentence (internal) with green does not annoy Peter.


Test headline (internal) with Use of adjectives and kinds.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter is friendly.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is tidy.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is tall.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is a man.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is a friendly man.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is a tidy man.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is a tall tidy green visible man.
Test sentence (internal) with the score is a number.
Test sentence (internal) with the score is an odd number.
Test sentence (internal) with the fashionable hue is bright.
Test sentence (internal) with the fashionable hue is a colour.
Test sentence (internal) with the fashionable hue is a bright colour.


Test headline (internal) with Negated use of adjectives and kinds.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not friendly.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not tidy.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not tall.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not a man.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not a friendly man.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not a tidy man.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not a tall tidy green visible man.
Test sentence (internal) with the score is not a number.
Test sentence (internal) with the score is not an odd number.
Test sentence (internal) with the fashionable hue is not bright.
Test sentence (internal) with the fashionable hue is not a colour.
Test sentence (internal) with the fashionable hue is not a bright colour.


Test headline (internal) with Single quantification.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes someone.
Test sentence (internal) with someone likes Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone likes Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter owns something.
Test sentence (internal) with someone owns Missee.


Test headline (internal) with Negated single quantification.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not like someone.
Test sentence (internal) with someone does not like Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not like everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone does not like Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not own anything.
Test sentence (internal) with someone does not own Missee.


Test headline (internal) with Double quantification.

Test sentence (internal) with someone likes someone.
Test sentence (internal) with someone likes everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone likes everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with a man likes a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with a woman is liked by a man.
Test description (internal) with a man who likes a woman.
Test description (internal) with a woman who is liked by a man.


Test headline (internal) with Negated double quantification.

Test sentence (internal) with someone does not like someone.
Test sentence (internal) with someone does not like everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone does not like everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with a man does not like a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with a woman is not liked by a man.
Test description (internal) with a man who does not like a woman.
Test description (internal) with a woman who is not liked by a man.


Test headline (internal) with Unquantified relative clauses.

Test description (internal) with a man in the Laboratory.
Test description (internal) with a man carrying the box.
Test sentence (internal) with a man can see the box in the Laboratory.
Test sentence (internal) with a man can see the marble in the box in the Laboratory.


Test headline (internal) with Quantification in sentences with relative clauses.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes someone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes everyone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes everyone who likes every man.
Test sentence (internal) with someone likes someone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with someone likes everyone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with someone likes everyone who likes every man.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone likes someone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone likes everyone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone likes everyone who likes every man.

Test sentence (internal) with someone who is a woman likes Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is a woman likes Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who likes every man likes Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with someone who is a woman likes someone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is a woman likes someone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who likes every man likes someone.
Test sentence (internal) with someone who is a woman likes everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is a woman likes everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who likes every man likes everyone.


Test headline (internal) with Negated quantification in sentences with relative clauses.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not like someone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not like everyone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not like everyone who does likes every man.
Test sentence (internal) with someone does not like someone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with someone does not like everyone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with someone does not like everyone who likes every man.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone does not like someone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone does not like everyone who is a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone does not like everyone who likes every man.

Test sentence (internal) with someone who is not a woman likes Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is not a woman likes Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who does not like every man likes Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with someone who is not a woman likes someone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is not a woman likes someone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who does not like every man likes someone.
Test sentence (internal) with someone who is not a woman likes everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is not a woman likes everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who does not like every man likes everyone.


Test headline (internal) with Quantification in sentences with negated relative clauses.

Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes someone who is not a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes everyone who is not a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter likes everyone who does not like every man.
Test sentence (internal) with someone likes someone who is not a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with someone likes everyone who is not a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with someone likes everyone who does not like every man.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone likes someone who is not a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone likes everyone who is not a woman.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone likes everyone who does not like every man.

Test sentence (internal) with someone who is a woman does not like Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is a woman does not like Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who likes every man does not like Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with someone who is a woman does not like someone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is a woman does not like someone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who likes every man does not like someone.
Test sentence (internal) with someone who is a woman does not like everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who is a woman does not like everyone.
Test sentence (internal) with everyone who likes every man does not like everyone.


Test headline (internal) with Listed-in predication.

Test sentence (internal) with 4 is a density listed in the Table of Solid Stuff.
Test sentence (internal) with nothing is a statue listed in the Table of Stolid Stuff.
Test sentence (internal) with a crispiness listed in the Table of Salad Stuff is a density listed in the Table of Solid Stuff.


Test headline (internal) with Scenery as a noun.

Test description (internal) with the box in scenery.
Test sentence (internal) with all of the scenery parts of Peter are in the Laboratory.


Test headline (internal) with Region containment.

Test sentence (internal) with the box is in the Laboratory.
Test sentence (internal) with the box is in Transylvania.
Test sentence (internal) with Transylvania is in the Balkans.
Test sentence (internal) with Transylvania is in the doubtful item.
Test sentence (internal) with the box is in the doubtful item.
Test sentence (internal) with the doubtful item is in the Balkans.


Test headline (internal) with Use of everywhere.

Test description (internal) with a backdrop which is everywhere.
Test description (internal) with a backdrop which is not everywhere.


Test headline (internal) with Double negatives.

Test sentence (internal) with the box does not contain nothing.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is not lured by nothing.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter does not like nobody.
Test sentence (internal) with nobody does not like Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with no colour does not annoy Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with nothing does not annoy Peter.
Test sentence (internal) with no coin is not enclosed by a person.


Test headline (internal) with Having value properties.

Test sentence (internal) with the noun has weight.
Test sentence (internal) with the noun has weight at most 1.
Test sentence (internal) with the weight of the noun is at most 1.


Test headline (internal) with Type-checking.

Test description (internal) with a number which is even.
Test description (internal) with empty which is empty.
Test description (internal) with a scene which is not a number.
Test description (internal) with 100 which is not a text.
Test description (internal) with a number which is empty.
Test description (internal) with 100 which is empty.
Test description (internal) with a number which is inside a scene.
Test description (internal) with a scene which is inside a number.
Test description (internal) with a number which is inside a vehicle.
Test description (internal) with a vehicle which is inside a number.
Test description (internal) with a woman who likes a number.
Test description (internal) with a number which likes a man.
Test description (internal) with a woman who is a number.
Test description (internal) with a number which is a man.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is 20.
Test sentence (internal) with Peter is less than 20.
Test description (internal) with 10 which is opaque.
Test sentence (internal) with the Entire Game is empty.

Test sentence (internal) with funky todo is the action of waiting.
Test sentence (internal) with funky todo is waiting.

Test sentence (internal) with the player is heavier than 70kg.
Test sentence (internal) with the player is heavier than 6 feet 2 inches.

Test sentence (internal) with Entire Game is a density listed in the Table of Solid Stuff.

Test description (internal) with things enclosing the player that encloses something.
Test description (internal) with things that enclose something enclosed by the player.
