"The Bronzed Affair"

Great Outdoors is a region.
Basement is a region.
Haunted Area is a region.
Hourglass is a region.
State Rooms is a region.
Apartments is a region.
Stinky is a region.
Old Castle is a region.
Enclosed is a region.
Main Castle is a region.
iron-barred gate is a door.
steps is a door.
wooden staircase is a door.
ivory door is a door.
small door is a door.
hole is a door.
trapdoor is a door.
sinister door is a door.
decaying ladder is a door.
thick door is a door.
heavy door is a door.
Drawbridge is a room.
Drawbridge is in Great Outdoors.
Entrance Hall is a room.
Entrance Hall is in Main Castle.
Scarlet Gallery is a room.
Scarlet Gallery is in Old Castle.
Scarlet Tower is a room.
Scarlet Tower is in Old Castle.
Gallery of Historical Paintings is a room.
Gallery of Historical Paintings is in Old Castle.
Treasure Room is a room.
Treasure Room is in Old Castle.
Maze Room is a room.
Maze Room is in Old Castle.
Bear Corridor is a room.
Bear Corridor is in Basement.
Zoo is a room.
Zoo is in Basement.
Central Courtyard is a room.
Central Courtyard is in Main Castle.
Ground Floor Helical Staircase is a room.
Ground Floor Helical Staircase is in Main Castle.
Upstairs Helical Staircase is a room.
Upstairs Helical Staircase is in Apartments.
State Rotunda is a room.
State Rotunda is in State Rooms.
Law Library is a room.
Law Library is in State Rooms.
Lower Bulb is a room.
Lower Bulb is in Hourglass.
Upper Bulb is a room.
Upper Bulb is in Hourglass.
Smoke-Damaged Chamber is a room.
Smoke-Damaged Chamber is in State Rooms.
Burnt Frame is a room.
Burnt Frame is in State Rooms.
Records Room is a room.
Records Room is in State Rooms.
Parliamentary Chambers is a room.
Parliamentary Chambers is in State Rooms.
Great Dining Hall is a room.
Great Dining Hall is in Main Castle.
Translation Room is a room.
Translation Room is in State Rooms.
Black Gallery is a room.
Black Gallery is in State Rooms.
Armory is a room.
Armory is in State Rooms.
Lie Library is a room.
Lie Library is in State Rooms.
Cloister Walk is a room.
Cloister Walk is in Enclosed.
Walk's End is a room.
Walk's End is in Enclosed.
Rose Garden is a room.
Rose Garden is in Enclosed.
Scrying Room is a room.
Scrying Room is in Enclosed.
Central Crypt is a room.
Central Crypt is in Haunted Area.
Virgin's End is a room.
Virgin's End is in Haunted Area.
Father's Regret is a room.
Father's Regret is in Haunted Area.
Debtor's Paradise is a room.
Debtor's Paradise is in Haunted Area.
Apprentice's Workshop is a room.
Apprentice's Workshop is in Haunted Area.
Rocky Chamber is a room.
Rocky Chamber is in Basement.
Dank Room is a room.
Dank Room is in Haunted Area.
Press Room is a room.
Press Room is in Haunted Area.
Tight Passage is a room.
Tight Passage is in Basement.
Lucrezia's Study is a room.
Lucrezia's Study is in Basement.
Rooted Room is a room.
Rooted Room is in Basement.
Bell Castings is a room.
Bell Castings is in Basement.
Wax Supply is a room.
Wax Supply is in Basement.
Enormous Kitchen is a room.
Enormous Kitchen is in Main Castle.
Servant Quarters is a room.
Servant Quarters is in Main Castle.
Guard Tower is a room.
Guard Tower is in Main Castle.
Gallery of Still Life is a room.
Gallery of Still Life is in State Rooms.
White Gallery is a room.
White Gallery is in Stinky.
Private Parlor is a room.
Private Parlor is in Apartments.
Green Bedroom is a room.
Green Bedroom is in Apartments.
Guest Bedroom is a room.
Guest Bedroom is in Apartments.
Empty Bedroom is a room.
Empty Bedroom is in Apartments.
Crystal Bedroom is a room.
Crystal Bedroom is in Apartments.
Gilded Balcony is a room.
Gilded Balcony is in Apartments.
Bellroom is a room.
Bellroom is in Stinky.
Apothecary is a room.
Apothecary is in Stinky.
iron-barred gate is north of Drawbridge.
Central Courtyard is north of Entrance Hall.
iron-barred gate is south of Entrance Hall.
Guard Tower is southwest of Entrance Hall.
Scarlet Gallery is east of Entrance Hall.
Great Dining Hall is west of Entrance Hall.
Treasure Room is northeast of Scarlet Gallery.
Scarlet Tower is southeast of Scarlet Gallery.
Gallery of Historical Paintings is east of Scarlet Gallery.
Entrance Hall is west of Scarlet Gallery.
Scarlet Gallery is northwest of Scarlet Tower.
Maze Room is east of Gallery of Historical Paintings.
Scarlet Gallery is west of Gallery of Historical Paintings.
Scarlet Gallery is southwest of Treasure Room.
small door is east of Treasure Room.
Gallery of Historical Paintings is west of Maze Room.
Bear Corridor is down of Maze Room.
Zoo is northwest of Bear Corridor.
Maze Room is up of Bear Corridor.
Wax Supply is northeast of Zoo.
Bear Corridor is southeast of Zoo.
Rocky Chamber is southwest of Zoo.
State Rotunda is north of Central Courtyard.
Entrance Hall is south of Central Courtyard.
Ground Floor Helical Staircase is east of Central Courtyard.
Central Courtyard is west of Ground Floor Helical Staircase.
steps is up of Ground Floor Helical Staircase.
Private Parlor is east of Upstairs Helical Staircase.
steps is down of Upstairs Helical Staircase.
Central Courtyard is south of State Rotunda.
Law Library is southwest of State Rotunda.
Parliamentary Chambers is east of State Rotunda.
Lower Bulb is west of State Rotunda.
Lower Bulb is north of Law Library.
State Rotunda is northeast of Law Library.
Great Dining Hall is south of Law Library.
hole is down of Law Library.
Law Library is south of Lower Bulb.
State Rotunda is east of Lower Bulb.
Translation Room is west of Lower Bulb.
wooden staircase is up of Lower Bulb.
ivory door is southwest of Upper Bulb.
Gallery of Still Life is east of Upper Bulb.
Records Room is west of Upper Bulb.
wooden staircase is down of Upper Bulb.
ivory door is northeast of Smoke-Damaged Chamber.
Burnt Frame is south of Smoke-Damaged Chamber.
Lie Library is east of Smoke-Damaged Chamber.
Smoke-Damaged Chamber is north of Burnt Frame.
Black Gallery is east of Burnt Frame.
Upper Bulb is east of Records Room.
Cloister Walk is east of Parliamentary Chambers.
State Rotunda is west of Parliamentary Chambers.
Law Library is north of Great Dining Hall.
Entrance Hall is east of Great Dining Hall.
Enormous Kitchen is west of Great Dining Hall.
Lower Bulb is east of Translation Room.
Lie Library is north of Black Gallery.
Armory is south of Black Gallery.
Burnt Frame is west of Black Gallery.
Black Gallery is north of Armory.
Black Gallery is south of Lie Library.
Smoke-Damaged Chamber is west of Lie Library.
Rose Garden is north of Cloister Walk.
Walk's End is east of Cloister Walk.
Parliamentary Chambers is west of Cloister Walk.
Rose Garden is northwest of Walk's End.
Scrying Room is south of Walk's End.
Cloister Walk is west of Walk's End.
Cloister Walk is south of Rose Garden.
Walk's End is southeast of Rose Garden.
Rooted Room is down of Rose Garden.
Walk's End is north of Scrying Room.
small door is west of Scrying Room.
Virgin's End is north of Central Crypt.
Debtor's Paradise is south of Central Crypt.
Father's Regret is east of Central Crypt.
Apprentice's Workshop is west of Central Crypt.
hole is up of Central Crypt.
Central Crypt is south of Virgin's End.
Father's Regret is southeast of Virgin's End.
Apprentice's Workshop is southwest of Virgin's End.
Tight Passage is northeast of Father's Regret.
Virgin's End is northwest of Father's Regret.
Rocky Chamber is southeast of Father's Regret.
Debtor's Paradise is southwest of Father's Regret.
Central Crypt is west of Father's Regret.
Central Crypt is north of Debtor's Paradise.
Father's Regret is northeast of Debtor's Paradise.
Apprentice's Workshop is northwest of Debtor's Paradise.
trapdoor is down of Debtor's Paradise.
Virgin's End is northeast of Apprentice's Workshop.
Debtor's Paradise is southeast of Apprentice's Workshop.
Central Crypt is east of Apprentice's Workshop.
decaying ladder is up of Apprentice's Workshop.
Zoo is northeast of Rocky Chamber.
Father's Regret is northwest of Rocky Chamber.
Press Room is north of Dank Room.
trapdoor is up of Dank Room.
Dank Room is south of Press Room.
Rooted Room is northeast of Tight Passage.
Father's Regret is southwest of Tight Passage.
sinister door is west of Tight Passage.
sinister door is east of Lucrezia's Study.
Bell Castings is south of Rooted Room.
Tight Passage is southwest of Rooted Room.
Rose Garden is up of Rooted Room.
Rooted Room is north of Bell Castings.
Wax Supply is east of Bell Castings.
Zoo is southwest of Wax Supply.
Bell Castings is west of Wax Supply.
Servant Quarters is north of Enormous Kitchen.
Great Dining Hall is east of Enormous Kitchen.
Enormous Kitchen is south of Servant Quarters.
decaying ladder is down of Servant Quarters.
Entrance Hall is northeast of Guard Tower.
thick door is east of Gallery of Still Life.
Upper Bulb is west of Gallery of Still Life.
Bellroom is east of White Gallery.
thick door is west of White Gallery.
heavy door is north of Private Parlor.
Crystal Bedroom is south of Private Parlor.
Empty Bedroom is southeast of Private Parlor.
Green Bedroom is southwest of Private Parlor.
Guest Bedroom is east of Private Parlor.
Upstairs Helical Staircase is west of Private Parlor.
Private Parlor is northeast of Green Bedroom.
Private Parlor is west of Guest Bedroom.
Private Parlor is northwest of Empty Bedroom.
Private Parlor is north of Crystal Bedroom.
Gilded Balcony is south of Crystal Bedroom.
Crystal Bedroom is north of Gilded Balcony.
heavy door is south of Bellroom.
Apothecary is east of Bellroom.
White Gallery is west of Bellroom.
Bellroom is west of Apothecary.

Test index (internal) with Mp.
