Test: BeatRelevance
For: Z-Machine

The Cocktail Bar is a room. Cocktails are a concept. Party is a concept. The server and Loretta are women in the Cocktail Bar. The bartender, Patrick and Gareth are men in the Cocktail Bar. 

A drink is a kind of thing. A drink can be full or empty. Loretta carries an empty drink called a mai tai. Patrick carries a full drink called the old-fashioned.

A flavour is a kind of value. The flavours are mock, bitter, dry, semi-sweet, and sweet. A drink has a flavour. 

The last-named drink is a drink that varies. The chosen guest is a person that varies. The chosen guest is Loretta.

Test me with "talk about manhattan / talk about grasshopper / z".

Before reading a command while the turn count is 1:
	make the dialogue director active.

When play begins:
	now the left hand status line is "[live conversational subject list]";
	[make the dialogue director active.] 

Some drinks are defined by the Table of Available Beverages.

Table of Available Beverages
drink	flavour
a negroni	bitter
a boulevardier	bitter
a manhattan	semi-sweet
a martini	dry
a gimlet	semi-sweet
a kamikaze	sweet
a mojito	semi-sweet
a cosmopolitan	sweet
an appletini	sweet
a whisky on the rocks	dry
a Scotch	dry
an aperol spritz	bitter
a white russian	sweet
a grasshopper	sweet
a gin and tonic	semi-sweet	
a last word	semi-sweet


Understand "ask about [any drink]" as talking about.
Understand "tell about [any drink]" as talking about.
Understand "talk about [any drink]" as talking about.

Carry out talking about a drink:
	make the noun a live conversational subject.

Section 1 - Bar talk (dialogue)

(About any drink. If the noun is a drink.)

Player (to Bartender): "You catch the bartender's eye. 'So, what can you tell me about [the noun]?'"

Bartender: "He shrugs. 'I'd say on the spectrum of sweet to bitter, it's [flavour of the noun].'"

(About any sweet drink. Recurring.)

Server: "The server lights up. 'That's one of my favourites. I like sweet drinks.'"

Patrick: "'No sophistication,' Patrick remarks, with an exaggerated sigh."

