[Adapted from the bug report "The order of things" by Lucian Smith.]

Testing Room is a room. An apple and an orange are in the testing room. 
A fruit is a kind of thing. The apple is a fruit.

Looking At Things is a scene. Looking At Things begins when play begins.

Nearby is a region. Testing Room is in Nearby.

Part I - Forwards

Instead of examining the apple: say "Instead of examining the apple."; continue the 
action.

Instead of examining the apple during Looking At Things: say "Instead of examining 
the apple during Looking At Things."; continue the action.

Instead of examining the apple in Nearby: say "Instead of examining the apple in 
Nearby."; continue the action.

Instead of examining the apple in the presence of the orange: say 
"Instead of examining the apple in the presence of the orange."; continue the action.

Instead of examining the apple when the orange is in the testing room: 
say "Instead of examining the apple when the orange is in the testing room."; 
continue the action.

Instead of examining the apple in the Testing Room: say "Instead of examining the 
apple in the Testing Room."; continue the action.

Instead of examining something: say "Instead of examining something."; continue the 
action.

Instead of examining something during Looking At Things: say "Instead of examining 
something during Looking At Things."; continue the action.

Instead of examining something in Nearby: say "Instead of examining something in 
Nearby."; continue the action.

Instead of examining something in the presence of the orange: say 
"Instead of examining something in the presence of the orange."; continue the action.

Instead of examining something when the orange is in the testing room: 
say "Instead of examining something when the orange is in the testing room."; 
continue the action.

Instead of examining something in the Testing Room: say "Instead of examining 
something in the Testing Room."; continue the action.

Instead of examining a fruit: say "Instead of examining a fruit."; continue the 
action.

Instead of examining a fruit during Looking At Things: say "Instead of examining a 
fruit during Looking At Things."; continue the action.

Instead of examining a fruit in Nearby: say "Instead of examining a fruit in 
Nearby."; continue the action.

Instead of examining a fruit in the presence of the orange: say 
"Instead of examining a fruit in the presence of the orange."; continue the action.

Instead of examining a fruit when the orange is in the testing room: say 
"Instead of examining a fruit when the orange is in the testing room."; continue the 
action.

Instead of examining a fruit in the Testing Room: say "Instead of examining a fruit 
in the Testing Room."; continue the action.

Part II - Backwards

Instead of eating a fruit in the Testing Room: say "Instead of eating a fruit in the 
Testing Room."; continue the action.

Instead of eating a fruit when the orange is in the testing room: say 
"Instead of eating a fruit when the orange is in the testing room."; continue the 
action.

Instead of eating a fruit in the presence of the orange: say "Instead of eating a 
fruit in the presence of the orange."; continue the action.

Instead of eating a fruit in Nearby: say "Instead of eating a fruit in Nearby."; 
continue the action.

Instead of eating a fruit during Looking At Things: say "Instead of eating a fruit 
during Looking At Things."; continue the action.

Instead of eating a fruit: say "Instead of eating a fruit."; continue the action.

Instead of eating something in the Testing Room: say "Instead of eating something in 
the Testing Room."; continue the action.

Instead of eating something when the orange is in the testing room: say 
"Instead of eating something when the orange is in the testing room."; continue the 
action.

Instead of eating something in the presence of the orange: say "Instead of eating 
something in the presence of the orange."; continue the action.

Instead of eating something in Nearby: say "Instead of eating something in Nearby."; 
continue the action.

Instead of eating something during Looking At Things: say "Instead of eating 
something during Looking At Things."; continue the action.

Instead of eating something: say "Instead of eating something."; continue the 
action.

Instead of eating the apple in the Testing Room: say "Instead of eating the apple in 
the Testing Room."; continue the action.

Instead of eating the apple when the orange is in the testing room: say 
"Instead of eating the apple when the orange is in the testing room."; continue the 
action.

Instead of eating the apple in the presence of the orange: say "Instead of eating 
the apple in the presence of the orange."; continue the action.

Instead of eating the apple in Nearby: say "Instead of eating the apple in Nearby."; 
continue the action.

Instead of eating the apple during Looking At Things: say "Instead of eating the 
apple during Looking At Things."; continue the action.

Instead of eating the apple: say "Instead of eating the apple."; continue the 
action.

Test me with "x apple / eat apple".
