Big House is a room.

Elizabeth and Lydia are women in the Big House. Darcy, Wickham and Mr Bennett are men in the Big House.

Loving relates one person to one person. The verb to love (he loves, they
love, he loved, he is loved) implies the loving relation.

Elizabeth loves Darcy.

Noticing relates various people to one person. The verb to notice (he
notices, they notice, he noticed, he is noticed) implies the noticing
relation.

Elizabeth notices Darcy. Lydia notices Mr Wickham. Mr Bennett notices Mr Wickham.

Impressing relates one person to various people. The verb to impress (he
impresses, they impress, he impressed, he is impressed) implies the
impressing relation.

Elizabeth impresses Darcy. Darcy impresses Mr Bennett.

Fancying relates various people to various people. The verb to fancy (he
fancies, they fancy, he fancied, he is fancied) implies the fancying
relation.

Elizabeth fancies Darcy. Lydia fancies Darcy. Wickham fancies Lydia.

Marriage relates one person to another. The verb to be married to implies
the marriage relation.

Elizabeth is married to Darcy.

Acquaintance relates people to each other. The verb to know (he knows, they
know, he knew, he is known) implies the acquaintance relation.

Elizabeth knows Darcy. Wickham knows Darcy. Elizabeth knows Mr Bennett.

Alliance relates people to each other in groups. The verb to be related to
implies the alliance relation.

Elizabeth is related to Darcy. Lydia is related to Elizabeth.

When play begins:
	diagnose the loving relation;
	diagnose the noticing relation;
	diagnose the impressing relation;
	diagnose the fancying relation;
	diagnose the acquaintance relation;
	diagnose the marriage relation;
	diagnose the alliance relation;

To diagnose (R - relation):
	say "[line break]Diagnosing [R]...";
	repeat with P running through people:
		say "[person who relates to P by R] --> [P]; [P] --> [person to whom P relates by R]; [list of people who relate to P by R in brace notation].";	
	showme the list of people whom R relates;
	showme the list of people to whom R relates;
