The Place is a room. The box and the crate are in the Place. A coin is a
kind of thing. There is a room called the Shadow World. There is a coin in
the box. There is a double-bladed axe in the box. There are three coins in
the Shadow World. There are two coins on the crate. There is a jigsaw
puzzle which is in the box. Four coins are in the Shadow World.

Incrimination relates various things to various people. The verb to
incriminate (he incriminates, they incriminate, he incriminated, it is
incriminated, he is incriminating) implies the incrimination relation.

There is a man called Mr Darcy. There is a pair of boxer shorts which
incriminates Mr Darcy. There is a fishing rod incriminating Mr Darcy.

There is a woman.

There is a room which is dark.

Test me with "showme / showme Shadow / relations / z / get axe / z / get
coin from crate / put axe in box / put coin in box / z / get all from box /
z / jump / z".

Instead of jumping:
	now nothing incriminates Mr Darcy;
	say "By jumping, you destroy the evidence."

Instead of waiting:
	if there is a man, say "There is a man.";
	if there are men, say "There are men.";
	if there is a vehicle, say "There is a vehicle.";
	if there are vehicles, say "There are vehicles.";
	if there is no vehicle, say "There is no vehicle.";
	if there are no vehicles, say "There are no vehicles.";
	if nothing is in the box, say "Nothing is in the box.";
	if there is nothing in the box, say "There is nothing in the box.";
	if a thing is in the box, say "A thing is in the box.";
	if there is something in the box, say "There is something in the box.";
	if there is something which is in the box, say "There is something which is in the box.";
	if three things are in the box, say "Three things are in the box.";
	if there are three things in the box, say "There are three things in the box.";
	if fewer than three things are in the box, say "Fewer than three things are in the box.";
	if there are fewer than three things in the box, say "There are fewer than three things in the box.";
	if exactly three things are in the box, say "Exactly three things are in the box.";
	if there are exactly three things in the box, say "There are exactly three things in the box.";
	if at least three things are in the box, say "At least three things are in the box.";
	if there are at least three things in the box, say "There are at least three things in the box.";
	if something incriminates Mr Darcy, say "Something incriminates Mr Darcy.";
	if there is something incriminating Mr Darcy, say "There is something incriminating Mr Darcy.";
	if nothing incriminates Mr Darcy, say "Nothing incriminates Mr Darcy.";
	if there is nothing incriminating Mr Darcy, say "There is nothing incriminating Mr Darcy.";
	say "There are [number of rooms] rooms, of which [number of lighted rooms] lighted.";
