Stanford is a room.

LSD Experience is a scene. Bach Cantata Concert is a scene.

Definition: a scene is bad if it is the LSD Experience.

Definition: a scene is good if it is not the LSD Experience.

Material is a kind of value. The materials are wood and metal. A thing has a material.

Definition: A material is strong if it is metal.

Materiality relates a thing (called X) to a material (called Y) when Y is
the material of X. The verb to be made of implies the materiality relation.

The desk and lamp are in Stanford. The desk is wood. The lamp is metal. Don
Knuth is a man in Stanford.

Featuring relates a scene (called X) to a person (called Y) when Y is the
player. The verb to feature (he features, they feature, it featured, it is
featured, it is featuring) implies the featuring relation.

When play begins:
	say "Materials: ";
	if the player can see a thing made of a strong material, say "The player can see a thing made of a strong material.";
	otherwise say "The player can't see a thing made of a strong material.";
	say "Scenes:[paragraph break]";
	if a scene (called X) features the player, say "Scene [X] features the player.";
	otherwise say "No scene features the player.";
	if more than two scenes feature the player, say "More than two scenes feature the player.";
	otherwise say "Fewer than two scenes feature the player.";
	if more than two scenes feature Knuth, say "More than two scenes feature Knuth.";
	otherwise say "Fewer than two scenes feature Knuth.";
	say "Number of scenes featuring the player: [number of scenes featuring the player].";
	say "Number of scenes featuring Knuth: [number of scenes featuring Knuth].";
	say "Number of bad scenes featuring the player: [number of bad scenes featuring the player].";
	say "Number of bad scenes featuring Knuth: [number of bad scenes featuring Knuth].";
	say "Number of good scenes featuring the player: [number of good scenes featuring the player].";
	say "Number of good scenes featuring Knuth: [number of good scenes featuring Knuth].";
