Aleph and Beth are rooms. Beth is dark. Alephland is a region. Aleph is in
Alephland. Bethland is a region. Beth is in Bethland.

The air is a backdrop. The air is everywhere.
The rain is a backdrop. The rain is nowhere.

The marble is nowhere.

When play begins:
	say "At this point the marble is nowhere.";
	diagnose the marble;
	say "At this point the marble is in Aleph.";
	now the marble is in Aleph;
	diagnose the marble;
	say "At this point the marble is in Beth.";
	now the marble is in Beth;
	diagnose the marble;
	say "At this point the rain is nowhere.";
	diagnose the rain;
	say "At this point the rain is in Alephland.";
	now the rain is in Alephland;
	diagnose the rain;
	say "At this point the rain is in Bethland.";
	now the rain is in Bethland;
	diagnose the rain;
	say "At this point the rain is nowhere.";
	now the rain is nowhere;
	diagnose the rain;
	say "At this point the rain is everywhere.";
	now the rain is everywhere;
	diagnose the rain;
	now the marble is everywhere.

To diagnose (X - an object):
	say "X = [X].";
	if X is in Aleph, say "[X] is in Aleph.";
	if X is in Beth, say "[X] is in Beth.";
	showme whether or not Aleph is somewhere lighted;
	showme whether or not Beth is somewhere lighted;
	showme whether or not the X is in Aleph;
	showme whether or not the X is everywhere which is Aleph;
	showme whether or not the X is somewhere which is Aleph;
	showme whether or not the X is somewhere;
	showme whether or not the X is not somewhere;
	showme whether or not the X is somewhere lighted;
	showme whether or not the X is in somewhere lighted;
	showme whether or not the X is somewhere which is lighted;
	showme whether or not the X is somewhere which is not lighted;
	showme whether or not the X is nowhere;
	showme whether or not the X is not nowhere;
	showme whether or not the X is in every room;
	showme whether or not the X is everywhere;
	showme whether or not the X is not in every room;
	showme whether or not the X is not everywhere;
	say "[paragraph break]".
