3P53 (9 June 2006)

(Windows only) The Transcript tab is now added - a major feature, and the
	only one omitted from the Windows application in the first public
	beta release. (There is one caveat: the transcript does not yet underline
	differences when the game text does not match the blessed text.)
(Windows only) Switched to using the NullSoft Installer System to create the
	installer. If you have a previous version installed, you should uninstall
	it from "Add or Remove Programs" in the Control Panel before installing
	this version.
(Windows only) The "Install Extension" menu item no longer rejects extensions
	with Unix-style line endings.
(Windows only) The "Install Extension" menu item shows the installed extensions
	documentation page after a successful install of an extension.
(Windows only) Clicking on an item in the search results window now always
	brings the appropriate tab to the front.
(Windows only) Compiling a game no longer steals the input focus from the
	Source tab.
(Windows only) It is no longer possible to put the edit windows into "smart
	quotes" mode.
(Windows only) The Game and Build menus have been merged.
(Mac OS X only) Mechanism for installing extensions now added: simply click
	the [+] button in the Extensions panel of the application Preferences.
	Installed extensions may also be edited using "Open Extension >" in
	the File menu.
(Mac OS X only) The 'Standard' library is now standard for Inform 6 projects.
(Mac OS X only) Projects with a setting for a version of the Inform 6 compiler
	that is not installed no longer crash the application (and choose a
	sensible alternative version).
(Mac OS X only) I6 compiler used internally is now bi-platform 6.31, not 6.30.
Improved "Help" menu offers short-cuts to the Recipe Book and the Installed
	Extensions documentation.
Examples:
	"The Abolition of Love" added, as a thorough exploration of all the kinds
		of relations which can be set and unset.
	"Beachfront" added to demonstrate finding an object in a room which was
		not there before;
	"Van Helsing" added to demonstrate a character who follows the player
		from room to room.
	"Exit Strategy" added to demonstrate the beginning of scenes once in more
		detail, and to describe what it means when the scene change machinery
		is stuck (and how to diagnose and fix the problem).
	"Otranto": dealt with a bug such that a rope tied to a door did not
		restrict the player's movement appropriately.
	"Tamed": typo fixed.
	"Up and Up": minor fix for a description assigned to the wrong object.
	"Day One": waiting added to the selection of acceptable activities for
		which Freitag will not glare at the player.
	"Stately Gardens": typo fixed.
	"Sybil 1": additional comments and code to demonstrate some expanded
		forms of keyword matching.
	"Port Royal 3": fixed a typo that was causing part of the source not to
		copy properly into the code window.
	"Odyssey": minor syntax improvement to get rid of ugly legacy form.
Extensions:
	Basic Screen Effects (now version 2):
		modified so that local variable names are less likely ever to conflict
			with globals or other names in the author's work;
		"clear only the status line" added;
		"left alignment depth" variable added, allowing the author to print
			status elements at a different spacing than 14 spaces from the
			left edge of the screen;
	Menus:
		added arrow and escape keys as viable means of input;
		rule names added to several rules to make modification easier;
		local variable names made less likely to conflict.
	Plurality:
		changed "acts plural" phrase to apply to all objects, not just "things".
	Complex Listing (now version 2):
		corrected erroneous documentation;
		added "enumerated listing" option.
Made a general rewrite of the type-checking machinery: the new version is
	more extensively tested than the old (and produces slightly better
	Problem messages), but otherwise there should be no perceptible change.
Made it possible to unset a wider range of relations with "now". For
	instance, if "loving" is a one-to-one relation, then "now Elizabeth
	does not love Darcy" is now allowed, if sad.
Added a new text substitution "[conditional paragraph break]".
Problem message added for tables defined with names which already have a
	meaning, leading to ambiguity (e.g., "Table of Three", since "three"
	is a number), with specific checking for clashes between table and kind
	named (e.g. "Table of Rooms").
Problem message added for use of 'either' on a list of 3 or more possibilities.
Problem message added where "number of ..." or "total ...", etc., are used
	with a determiner which makes this nonsensical ("number of at least three
	rooms", etc.).
Problem message added for contradictory redefinition of global variables.
	(Non-contradictory redefinitions are superfluous but legal.)
Problem message added for incorrect uses of "with", and an explanation
	supplied (where previously an internal error would sometimes occur).
Fixed bug whereby '(called ...)' used incorrectly in a scene beginning
	or ending condition could cause an internal error, and added a
	suitable Problem message.
New phrase option for "list the contents of...": "with extra indentation",
	which increases the left margin by 1 level of indentation - which
	simulates the way that the standard inventory listing looks.
References to tables can now refer to the table in question using a local
	or global variable, or a phrase to decide which table to look at.
Fixed bug whereby certain names consisting only of an article would lead
	to an internal error (thus producing the record-holder for shortest
	source text breaking I7: "A is a room."); and similarly for a name
	which includes parentheses "(" or ")", also not allowed.
Fixed bug: it's now possible to release a game with a website and cover
	art in PNG format, where previously the website assumed JPGs were
	used (although the compiled game itself was fine all along).
Fixed bug to do with return values from activities being lost (with thanks
	to Jesse McGrew, who provided the solution).
Fixed bug whereby a complex listing early in a "say" would cause a
	conditional [if] to go wrong later in the "say".
Fixed bug in the debugging command RELATIONS causing it to print some
	relations the wrong way round, and to omit some relationships with
	reciprocal various-to-various relations.
Fixed bug whereby released story files still contained some debugging verbs.
Also accidentally left in was the I6 verb FULLSCORE: this no longer works,
	and is deprecated now that there are better ways to achieve the same
	effect. In this build, the action and corresponding grammar are removed,
	leaving it open for designers to provide their own versions if they
	choose to do so.
Fixed bug in which "X are not Y" would sometimes complain of unproductive
	negative even if Y is such that not-Y is unambiguous, whereas "X is not
	Y" would work in similar circumstances.
Fixed bug where attempts to unlock something with the wrong key produced
	the wrong pronouns in the failure message.
Fixed bug where "each turn" and "check" rules were confused in the Rules
	index, and straightened out the spacing of this index.
