Inform 7 build 6L84 has started.
I've now read your source text, which is 33 words long.
I've also read Standard Rules by Graham Nelson, which is 42485 words long.
I've also read English Language by Graham Nelson, which is 2288 words long.
Problem__ PM_CompoundConditionFailed
  >--> In the sentence 'if the player is in the School and arfle barfle gloop' (source
    text, line 4), I was expecting that 'player is in the School and arfle
    barfle gloop' would be a condition. It didn't make sense as one long
    phrase, but because it was divided up by 'and'/'or', I tried breaking it
    down into smaller conditions, but that didn't work either. 'player is in
    the School' was okay; 'arfle barfle gloop' did not make sense; so I ran out
    of ideas.
    I was trying to match this phrase:
      if (player is in the school and arfle barfle gloop - a condition): 
    But I didn't recognise 'player is in the school and arfle barfle
    gloop'.
Problem__ PM_CompoundConditionFailed
  >--> In the sentence 'if the player is male and female' (source text, line 5),
    I was expecting that 'player is male and female' would be a condition. It
    didn't make sense as one long phrase, but because it was divided up by
    'and'/'or', I tried breaking it down into smaller conditions, but that
    didn't work either. 'player is male' was okay; 'female' was okay; but that
    combination of conditions isn't allowed to be joined together with 'and' or
    'or', because that would just be too confusing. For example, 'if the
    player is carrying a container or a supporter' has an obvious meaning in
    English, but Inform reads it as two different conditions glued together:
    'if the player is carrying a container', and also 'a supporter'. The
    meaning of the first is obvious. The second part is true if the current
    item under discussion is a supporter - for instance, the noun of the
    current action, or the item to which a definition applies. Both of these
    conditions are useful in different circumstances, but combining them in one
    condition like this makes a very misleading line of text. So Inform
    disallows it.
    I was trying to match this phrase:
      if (player is male and female - a condition): 
    But I didn't recognise 'player is male and female'.
Inform 7 has finished: 62 centiseconds used.
