Inform 7 v10.1.0 has started.
I've now read your source text, which is 38 words long.
I've also read Basic Inform by Graham Nelson, which is 7687 words long.
I've also read English Language by Graham Nelson, which is 2328 words long.
I've also read Standard Rules by Graham Nelson, which is 32067 words long.
Problem__ PM_SayUnicode
  >--> In the line 'say unicode Coastline of Spain' (source text, line 4), I
    was expecting that 'unicode Coastline of Spain' would be something to
    'say', but it didn't look like any form of 'say' that I know. So I tried to
    read 'unicode Coastline of Spain' as a Unicode character, which seemed
    likely because of the word 'unicode', but that didn't work either. Unicode
    characters can be written either using their decimal numbers - for
    instance, 'Unicode 2041' - or with their standard names - 'Unicode Latin
    small ligature oe'. For efficiency reasons these names are only available
    if you ask for them; to make them available, you need to 'Include Unicode
    Character Names by Graham Nelson' or, if you really need more, 'Include
    Unicode Full Character Names by Graham Nelson'.
Problem__ PM_SayUnicode
  >--> In the line 'say "Look at the [unicode Coastline of France] there."' (source
    text, line 5), I was expecting that 'unicode Coastline of France' would be
    something to 'say', but it didn't look like any form of 'say' that I know.
    So I tried to read 'unicode Coastline of France' as a Unicode character,
    which seemed likely because of the word 'unicode', but that didn't work
    either. Unicode characters can be written either using their decimal
    numbers - for instance, 'Unicode 2041' - or with their standard names -
    'Unicode Latin small ligature oe'. For efficiency reasons these names are
    only available if you ask for them; to make them available, you need to
    'Include Unicode Character Names by Graham Nelson' or, if you really need
    more, 'Include Unicode Full Character Names by Graham Nelson'.
Problem__ PM_SayUnicode
  >--> In the line '"oh, my, that appears to be [unicode Coastline of Italy]"' (source
    text, line 6), I was expecting that 'unicode Coastline of Italy' would be
    something to 'say', but it didn't look like any form of 'say' that I know.
    So I tried to read 'unicode Coastline of Italy' as a Unicode character,
    which seemed likely because of the word 'unicode', but that didn't work
    either. Unicode characters can be written either using their decimal
    numbers - for instance, 'Unicode 2041' - or with their standard names -
    'Unicode Latin small ligature oe'. For efficiency reasons these names are
    only available if you ask for them; to make them available, you need to
    'Include Unicode Character Names by Graham Nelson' or, if you really need
    more, 'Include Unicode Full Character Names by Graham Nelson'. It may be
    worth adding that this problem arose in text which both contains
    substitutions and is also being used as a value - being put into a
    variable, or used as one of the ingredients in a phrase other than 'say'.
    Because that means it needs to be used in places outside its immediate
    context, it is not allowed to refer to any 'let' values or phrase options -
    those are temporary things, long gone by the time it would need to be
    printed.
Inform 7 has finished.
