Chapter 1: Pride and Prejudice


§1.1. Truth



 

It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.

However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters.

	Goodness! interjected Mr Wickham.

"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?"

	Am I in the story yet?
	It would appear, sir, that you are not.

	But then, whence came these intermissions?

Mr. Bennet replied that he had not.

"But it is," returned she; "for Mrs. Long has just been here, and she told me all about it."

	"An Inline Example"

	This is not very much.

Mr. Bennet made no answer & instead <sat down>.

PHRASE: display the boxed quotation (text)

This phrase displays the given text on screen in an overlaid box. For reasons to do with the way such quotations are plotted onto the screen, their text is treated literally: no substitutions in square brackets are obeyed. The quotation will only ever appear once, regardless of the number of times the "display the boxed quotation ..." phrase is reached. Rather than being shown immediately - and thus, probably, scrolling away before it can be seen - the display is held back until the next command prompt is shown to the player. Example:

	After looking in the Wabe, display the boxed quotation
		"And 'the wabe' is the grass-plot round
		a sun-dial, I suppose? said Alice,
		surprised at her own ingenuity.

		Of course it is. It's called 'wabe,'
		you know, because it goes a long way
		before it, and a long way behind it --

		-- Lewis Carroll".

This was the original example used in Trinity, by Brian Moriarty, which invented the idea. A player exploring Kensington Gardens comes upon a location enigmatically called The Wabe; and by way of explanation, this quotation pops up.



"Do you not want to know who has taken it?" cried his wife impatiently.

"_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."

This was invitation enough.

	Table of Mental States
	feeling	extent	consequence
	pumped	1		"you feel able to run for your life"
	pumped	2		"you feel able to run for President"
	wired	1		"you feel able to run"
	languid	1		"you feel"

	Table of Mental States (amended)
	feeling	extent	consequence
	pumped	2		"you feel able to run for the Nebraska State Legislature"

"Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that he came down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much delighted with it, that he agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that he is to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be in the house by the end of next week."

"What is his name?"

"Bingley."

"Is he married or single?"

"Oh! Single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!"


§1.2. Money






 







  


 

"How so? How can it affect them?"

"My dear Mr. Bennet," replied his wife, "how can you be so tiresome! You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them."

"Is that his design in settling here?"

(Image skt1.png here)

"Design! Nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that he _may_ fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as soon as he comes."

"I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the party."

"My dear, you flatter me. I certainly _have_ had my share of beauty, but I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty."

"In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of."

"But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into the neighbourhood."

"It is more than I engage for, I assure you."

"But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it would be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account, for in general, you know, they visit no newcomers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit him if you do not."

"You are over-scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my hearty consent to his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls; though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy."

"I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving _her_ the preference."

"They have none of them much to recommend them," replied he; "they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more of quickness than her sisters."

"Mr. Bennet, how _can_ you abuse your own children in such a way? You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion for my poor nerves."

"You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consideration these last twenty years at least."

"Ah, you do not know what I suffer."

"But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood."

"It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit them."

"Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them all."

Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour, reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. _Her_ mind was less difficult to develop. She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented, she fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her daughters married; its solace was visiting and news.

Chapter 2: Waiting


§2.1. Bingley









 

Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. He had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid she had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed her with:

"I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy."

PHRASE: (phrase nothing -> value) applied ... value

This phrase produces the result of applying the given phrase, which must be one which takes no values itself.



PHRASE: (phrase value -> value) applied to (value) ... value

This phrase produces the result of applying the given phrase, which must be one which takes one value itself.



PHRASE: (phrase (value, value) -> value) applied to (value) and (value) ... value

This phrase produces the result of applying the given phrase, which must be one which takes two values itself.



PHRASE: (phrase (value, value, value) -> value) applied to (value) and (value) and (value) ... value

This phrase produces the result of applying the given phrase, which must be one which takes three values itself.




"We are not in a way to know _what_ Mr. Bingley likes," said her mother resentfully, "since we are not to visit."

"But you forget, mamma," said Elizabeth, "that we shall meet him at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long promised to introduce him."

"I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. She has two nieces of her own. She is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I have no opinion of her."

"No more have I," said Mr. Bennet; "and I am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you."

Mrs. Bennet deigned not to make any reply, but, unable to contain herself, began scolding one of her daughters.

"Don't keep coughing so, Kitty, for Heaven's sake! Have a little compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces."

"Kitty has no discretion in her coughs," said her father; "she times them ill."

"I do not cough for my own amusement," replied Kitty fretfully. "When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?"

"To-morrow fortnight."


Examples


Example 1 (*): The Über-complète Absolute Truth
An explanation of the examples in this documentation, and the asterisks attached to them. Click the heading of the example, or the example number, to reveal the text.

This is the first of about 400 numbered examples. In a few cases, such as this one, they provide a little background information, but almost all demonstrate Inform source text. The techniques demonstrated tend to be included either because they are frequently asked for, or because they show how to achieve some interesting effect.

In most cases, typing the single command TEST ME will play through a few moves to show off the effect being demonstrated. (You may find it convenient to create a "scratch" project file for temporary trials like this, clearing all its text and starting again with each new test.)

As part of the testing process which verifies a new build of Inform, each example in turn is extracted from this documentation, translated, played through, and the resulting transcript mechanically checked. So the examples may even work as claimed. But the flesh is weak, and there are bound to be glitches. We would welcome reports, so that future editions can be corrected.

Each example is loosely graded by difficulty: if they were exercises in a textbook, the asterisks would indicate how many marks each question scores. As a general rule:

	(Image asterisk.png here) - A simple example, fairly easily guessed.
	(Image asterisk.png here) (Image asterisk.png here) - A complicated or surprising example.
	(Image asterisk.png here) (Image asterisk.png here) (Image asterisk.png here) - An example needing detailed knowledge of many aspects of the system.
	(Image asterisk.png here) (Image asterisk.png here) (Image asterisk.png here) (Image asterisk.png here) - A complete scenario, containing material not necessarily relevant to the topic being demonstrated.

In general, the main text of Writing with Inform tries never to assume knowledge of material which has not yet appeared, but the trickier examples almost always need to break this rule.

The same examples are included in both of the books of documentation, but in a different order: in Writing with Inform, they appear near the techniques used to make them work; in The Inform Recipe Book, they are grouped by the effects they provide. For instance, an example called "Do Pass Go", about the throwing of a pair of dice, appears in the "Randomness" section of Writing with Inform and also in the "Dice and Playing Cards" section of The Inform Recipe Book. Clicking the italicised WI and RB buttons at the right-hand side of an example's heading switches between its position in each book.

	"The Über-complète Absolute Truth"

	The Minivan is a room. The Open Road is outside from the Minivan. Pete is a man in the Minivan. "Pete [if the player has been in the Minivan for 3 turns]is starting to look bored[otherwise]is playing with his travel activity book[end if]."

	Every turn:
		if the player has been in the Minivan for 5 turns, say "'Are we there [if saying no]now?'[otherwise]yet?' asks Pete.[end if]"

	Instead of saying no:
		say "'Oh,' says Pete. There is a blessed, momentary silence."

	Table of Value Names
	term	value	topic
	"ace"	"1"	"ace/A/one"
	"deuce"	"2"	"deuce/two"
	"three"	"3"	"three"
	"four"	"4"	"four"
	"five"	"5"	"five"
	"six"	"6"	"six"
	"seven"	"7"	"seven"
	"eight"	"8"	"eight"
	"nine"	"9"	"nine"
	"ten"	"10"	"ten"
	"jack"	"11"	"jack/knave/J"
	"queen"	"12"	"queen/Q"
	"king"	"13"	"king/K"

	Instead of going to the Open Road:
		say "You leap to your death.";
		end the story.

	Test me with "z / z / look / g / g / g / no / z / z / z / no / z / out".

And indeed

	The example continues here.

	And goes on.

----------------------------------------------------------------------


